outflow rate is higher on cold days than on warm days. But for thermostats this control problem TIS final pgs 38 5/2/09 10:37:36 CHAPTER TWO: A BRIEF VISIT TO THE SYSTEMS ZOO 39
isn’t serious. You can muddle your way to a thermostat setting you can live with. For other systems with this same structure of competing balancing loops, the fact that the stock
goes on changing while you’re trying to control it can create real problems. For example, suppose you’re trying to maintain a store inventory at a certain level. You can’t
instantly order new stock to make up an immediately apparent shortfall. If you don’t account for the goods that will be sold while you are waiting for the order to come in, your
inventory will never be quite high enough. You can be fooled in the same way if you’re trying to maintain a cash balance at a certain level, or the level of water in a reservoir,
or the concentration of a chemical in a continuously flowing reaction system. There’s an important general principle here, and also one specific to the thermostat structure. First
the general one: The information delivered by a feedback loop can only affect future behavior; it can’t deliver the information, and so can’t have an impact fast enough to correct
behavior that drove the current feedback. A person in the system who makes a decision based on the feedback can’t change the behavior of the system that drove the current feedback;
the decisions he or she makes The information delivered will affect only future behavior. by a feedback loop—even Why is that important? Because it means there nonphysical
feedback— will always be delays in responding. It says that can only affect future a flow can’t react instantly to a flow. It can react behavior; it can’t deliver only to a change
in a stock, and only after a slight a signal fast enough to delay to register the incoming information. In the correct behavior that bathtub, it takes a split second of time to
assess the drove the current feeddepth of the water and decide to adjust the flows. back. Even nonphysical information takes time to Many economic models make a mistake in this
feedback into the system. matter by assuming that consumption or production can respond immediately, say, to a change in price. That’s one of the reasons why real economies tend
not to behave exactly like many economic models. The specific principle you can deduce from this simple system is that you must remember in thermostat-like systems to take into
account whatever draining or filling processes are going on. If you don’t, you won’t achieve the target level of your stock. If you want your room temperature to be at 18°C (65°F),
you have to set the thermostat a little above the desired TIS final pgs 39 5/2/09 10:37:36 40 PART ONE: SYSTEM STRUCTURE AND BEHAVIOR temperature. If you want to pay off your
credit card (or the national debt), you have to raise your repayment rate high enough to cover the charges you incur while you’re paying (including interest). If you’re gearing up
your work force to a higher level, you have to hire fast enough to correct for those who quit while you are hiring. In other A stock-maintaining balancing feedback loop must have
words, your mental model of the system needs its goal set appropriately to include all the important flows, or you will to compensate for draining be surprised by the system’s
behavior. Before we leave the thermostat, we should see or inﬂowing processes that affect that stock. Otherwise, how it behaves with a varying outside temperthe feedback process
will fall ature. Figure 19 shows a twenty-four-hour short of or exceed the target period of normal operation of a well-funcfor the stock. tioning thermostat system, with the
outside temperature dipping well below freezing. The inflow of heat from the furnace nicely tracks the outflow of heat to the outside. The temperature in the room varies hardly at
all once the room has warmed up. Every balancing feedback loop has its breakdown point, where other loops pull the stock away from its goal more strongly than it can pull back.
That can happen in this simulated thermostat system, if I weaken the power of the heating loop (a smaller furnace that cannot put out as much heat), or if I strengthen the power of
the cooling loop (colder outside tempera- room temperature 15 temperature ºC 68 thermostat setting 59 10 50 5 41 outside temperature 0 32 -5 temperature ºF 20 23 0 6 12 hour 18 24
Figure 19. The furnace warms a cool room, even as heat leaks from the room and outside temperatures drop below freezing. TIS final pgs 40 5/2/09 10:37:36 CHAPTER TWO: A BRIEF VISIT
TO THE SYSTEMS ZOO 41 ture, less insulation, or larger leaks). Figure 20 shows what happens with the same outside temperatures as in Figure 19, but with faster heat loss from the
room. At very cold temperatures, the furnace just can’t keep up with the heat drain. The loop that is trying to bring the room temperature down to the outside temperature dominates
the system for a while. The room gets pretty uncomfortable! 20 68 thermostat setting 15 59 10 50 5 41 outside temperature 0 32 -5 temperature ºF temperature ºC room temperature 23
0 6 12 hour 18 24 Figure 20. On a cold day, the furnace can’t keep the room warm in this leaky house! See if you can follow, as time unfolds, how the variables in Figure 20 relate
to one another. At first, both the room and the outside temperatures are cool. The inflow of heat from the furnace exceeds the leak to the outside, and the room warms up. For an
hour or two, the outside is mild enough that the furnace replaces most of the heat that’s lost to the outside, and the room temperature stays near the desired temperature. But as
the outside temperature falls and the heat leak increases, the furnace cannot replace the heat fast enough. Because the furnace is generating less heat than is leaking out, the
room temperature falls. Finally, the outside temperature rises again, the heat leak slows, and the furnace, still operating at full tilt, finally can pull ahead and start to warm
the room again. Just as in the rules for the bathtub, whenever the furnace is putting in more heat than is leaking out, the room temperature rises. Whenever the inflow rate falls
behind the outflow rate, the temperature falls. If you TIS final pgs 41 5/2/09 10:37:36 42 PART ONE: SYSTEM STRUCTURE AND BEHAVIOR study the system changes on this graph for a
while and relate them to the feedback-loop diagram of this system, you’ll get a good sense of how the structural interconnections of this system—its two feedback loops and how they
shift in strength relative to each other—lead to the unfolding of the system’s behavior over time. A Stock with One Reinforcing Loop and One Balancing Loop—Population and
Industrial Economy What happens when a reinforcing and a balancing loop are both pulling on the same stock? This is one of the most common and important system structures. Among
other things, it describes every living population and every economy. births deaths population R fertility B mortality Figure 21. Population governed by a reinforcing loop of
births and a balancing loop of deaths. A population has a reinforcing loop causing it to grow through its birth rate, and a balancing loop causing it to die off through its death
rate. As long as fertility and mortality are constant (which in real systems they rarely are), this system has a simple behavior. It grows exponentially or dies off, depending on
whether its reinforcing feedback loop determining births is stronger than its balancing feedback loop determining deaths. For example, the 2007 world population of 6.6 billion
people had a fertility rate of roughly 21 births a year for every 1,000 people in the population. Its mortality rate was 9 deaths a year out of every 1,000 people. Fertility was
higher than mortality, so the reinforcing loop dominated the system. If those fertility and mortality rates continue unchanged, a child born TIS final pgs 42 5/2/09 10:37:37
CHAPTER TWO: A BRIEF VISIT TO THE SYSTEMS ZOO 43 25 population (billions) 20 15 10 5 0 2000 2020 2040 2060 year 2080 2100 2120 Figure 22. Population growth if fertility and
mortality maintain their 2007 levels of 21 births and nine deaths per 1,000 people. now will see the world population more than double by the time he or she reaches the age of 60,
as shown in Figure 22. If, because of a terrible disease, the mortality rate were higher, say at 30 deaths per 1,000, while the fertility rate remained at 21, then the death loop
25 population (billions) 20 15 10 5 0 2000 2020 2040 2060 year 2080 2100 2120 Figure 23. Population decline if fertility remains at 2007 level (21 births per 1,000) but mortality
is much higher, 30 deaths per 1,000. would dominate the system. More people would die each year than would be born, and the population would gradually decrease (Figure 23). TIS
final pgs 43 5/2/09 10:37:37 44 PART ONE: SYSTEM STRUCTURE AND BEHAVIOR Things get more interesting when fertility and mortality change over time. When the United Nations makes
long-range population projections, it generally assumes that, as countries become more developed, average fertility will decline (approaching replacement where on average each
woman has 1.85 children). Until recently, assumptions about mortality were that it would also decline, but more slowly (because it is already low in most parts of the world).
However, because of the epidemic of HIV/ AIDS, the UN now assumes the trend of increasing life expectancy over the next fifty years will slow in regions affected by HIV/AIDS.
Changing flows (fertility and mortality) create a change in the behavior over time of the stock (population)—the line bends. If, for example, world fertility falls steadily to
equal mortality by the year 2035 and they both stay 25 population (billions) 20 15 10 5 0 2000 2020 2040 2060 year 2080 2100 2120 Figure 24. Population stabilizes when fertility
equals mortality. constant thereafter, the population will level off, births exactly balancing deaths in dynamic equilibrium, as in Figure 24. This behavior is an example of
shifting dominance of feedback loops. Dominance is an important concept in systems thinking. When one loop dominates another, it has a stronger impact on behavior. Because systems
often have several competing feedback loops operating simultaneously, those loops that dominate the system will determine the behavior. At first, when fertility is higher than
mortality, the reinforcing growth loop dominates the system and the resulting behavior is exponential TIS final pgs 44 5/2/09 10:37:37 CHAPTER TWO: A BRIEF VISIT TO THE SYSTEMS ZOO
45 growth. But that loop is gradually weakened as fertility falls. Finally, it exactly equals the strength of the balancing loop of mortality. At that point neither loop dominates,
and we have dynamic equilibrium. You saw shifting dominance in the thermostat system, when the outside temperature fell Complex behaviors of and the heat leaking out of the poorly
insulated systems often arise as the relative strengths of feedhouse overwhelmed the ability of the furnace back loops shift, causing ﬁrst to put heat into the room. Dominance
shifted one loop and then another to from the heating loop to the cooling loop. dominate behavior. There are only a few ways a population system could behave, and these depend on
what happens to the “driving” variables, fertility and mortality. These are the only ones possible for a simple system of one reinforcing and one balancing loop. A stock governed
by linked reinforcing and balancing loops will grow exponentially if the reinforcing loop dominates the balancing one. It will die off if the balancing loop dominates the
reinforcing one. It will level off if the two loops are of equal strength (see Figure 25). Or it will do a sequence of these things, one after another, if the relative strengths of
the two loops change over time (see Figure 26). I chose some provocative population scenarios here to illustrate a point about models and the scenarios they can generate. Whenever
you are confronted with a scenario (and you are, every time you hear about an economic prediction, a corporate budget, a weather forecast, future climate change, a stockbroker
saying what is going to happen to a particular holding), there are questions you need to ask that will help you decide how good a representation of reality is the underlying model.
• Are the driving factors likely to unfold this way? (What are birth rate and death rate likely to do?) • If they did, would the system react this way? (Do birth and death rates
really cause the population stock to behave as we think it will?) • What is driving the driving factors? (What affects birth rate? What affects death rate?) The first question
can’t be answered factually. It’s a guess about the future, and the future is inherently uncertain. Although you may have a strong TIS final pgs 45 5/2/09 10:37:37 46 PART ONE:
SYSTEM STRUCTURE AND BEHAVIOR A: Growth 25 0 2000 B: Decline 25 0 2000 C: Stabilization 2120 2120 25 0 2000 2120 Figure 25. Three possible behaviors of a population: growth,
decline, and stabilization. opinion about it, there’s no way to prove you’re right until the future actually happens. A systems analysis can test a number of scenarios to see what
happens if the driving factors do different things. That’s usually one purpose of a systems analysis. But you have to be the judge of which scenario, if any, should be taken
seriously as a future that might really be possible. TIS final pgs 46 5/2/09 10:37:37 CHAPTER TWO: A BRIEF VISIT TO THE SYSTEMS ZOO 47 25 fertility > mortality population
(billions) 20 15 10 fertility > mortality fertility = mortality 5 0 2000 2020 2040 2060 year 2080 2100 2120 Figure 26. Shifting dominance of fertility and mortality loops. Dynamic
systems studies usually are not designed to predict what will happen. Rather, they’re designed to explore what would happen, if a number of driving factors unfold in a range of
different ways. The second question—whether the system really will react this way—is more scientific. It’s a question about how good the model is. Does it capture the inherent
dynamics of the system? Regardless of whether you think the driving factors will do that, would the system System dynamics models behave like that if they did? explore possible
futures and In the population scenarios above, however ask “what if” questions. likely you think they are, the answer to this second question is roughly yes, the population would
behave like this, if the fertility and mortality did that. The population model I have used here is very simple. A more detailed model would distinguish age groups, for example.
But basically this model responds the way a real population would, growing under the conditions when a real QUESTIONS FOR TESTING THE VALUE OF A MODEL 1. Are the driving factors
likely to unfold this way? 2. If they did, would the system react this way? 3. What is driving the driving factors? TIS final pgs 47 5/2/09 10:37:37 48 PART ONE: SYSTEM STRUCTURE
AND BEHAVIOR Model utility depends not on whether its driving scenarios are realistic (since no one can know that for sure), but on whether it responds with a realistic pattern of
behavior. population would grow, declining when a real population would decline. The numbers are off, but the basic behavior pattern is realistic. Finally, there is the third
question. What is driving the driving factors? What is adjusting the inflows and outflows? This is a question about system boundaries. It requires a hard look at those driving
factors to see if they are actually independent, or if they are also embedded in the system. Is there anything about the size of the population, for instance, that might feed back
to influence fertility or mortality? Do other factors—economics, the environment, social trends—influence fertility and mortality? Does the size of the population affect those
economic and environmental and social factors? Of course, the answer to all of these questions is yes. Fertility and mortality are governed by feedback loops too. At least some of
those feedback loops are themselves affected by the size of the population. This population “animal” is only one piece of a much larger system.3 One important piece of the larger
system that affects population is the economy. At the heart of the economy is another reinforcing-loop-plusbalancing-loop system—the same kind of structure, with the same kinds
investment depreciation capital stock B R investment fraction capital lifetime annual output output per unit capital Figure 27. Like a living population, economic capital has a
reinforcing loop (investment of output) governing growth and a balancing loop (depreciation) governing decline. TIS final pgs 48 5/2/09 10:37:37 CHAPTER TWO: A BRIEF VISIT TO THE
SYSTEMS ZOO 49 of behavior, as the population (see Figure 27). The greater the stock of physical capital (machines and factories) in the economy and the efficiency of production
(output per unit of capital), the more output (goods and services) can be produced each year. The more output that is produced, the more can be invested to make new capital. This
is a reinforcing loop, like the birth loop for a population. The investment fraction is equivalent to the fertility. The greater the fraction of its output a society invests, the
faster its capital stock will grow. Physical capital is drained by depreciation—obsolescence and wearingout. The balancing loop controlling depreciation is equivalent to the death
loop in a population. The “mortality” of capital is determined by the average capital lifetime. The longer the lifetime, the smaller the fraction of capital that must be retired
and replaced each year. If this system has the same structure as the population system, it must have the same repertoire of behaviors. Over recent history world capital, like world
population, has been dominated by its reinforcing loop and has been growing exponentially. Whether in the future it grows or stays constant or dies off depends on whether its
reinforcing growth loop remains stronger than its balancing depreciation loop. That depends on • the investment fraction—how much output the society invests rather than consumes, •
the efficiency of capital—how much capital it takes to produce a given amount of output, and • the average capital lifetime. If a constant fraction of output is reinvested in the
capital stock and the efficiency of that capital (its ability to produce output) is also constant, the capital stock may decline, stay constant, or grow, depending on the lifetime
of the capital. The lines in Figure 28 show systems with different average capital lifetimes. With a relatively short lifetime, the capital wears out faster than it is replaced.
Reinvestment does not keep up with depreciation and the economy slowly declines. When depreciation just balances investment, the economy is in dynamic equilibrium. With a long
lifetime, the capital stock grows exponentially. The longer the lifetime of capital, the faster it grows. This is another example of a principle we’ve already encountered: You can
make a stock grow by decreasing its outflow rate as well as by increas- TIS final pgs 49 5/2/09 10:37:37 50 PART ONE: SYSTEM STRUCTURE AND BEHAVIOR capital stock 300 200 20-year
lifetime 100 15-year lifetime 10-year lifetime 0 0 10 20 years 30 40 50 Figure 28. Growth in capital stock with changes in the lifetime of the capital. In a system with output per
unit capital ratio of 1:3 and an investment fraction of 20 percent, capital with a lifetime of 15 years just keeps up with depreciation. A shorter lifetime leads to a declining
stock of capital. ing its inflow rate! Just as many factors influence the fertility and mortality of a population, so many factors influence the output ratio, investment fraction,
and the lifetime of capital—interest rates, technology, tax policy, consumption habits, and prices, to name just a few. Population itself influences investment, both by
contributing labor to output, and by increasing demands on consumption, thereby decreasing the investment fraction. Economic output also feeds back to influence population in many
ways. A richer economy usually has better health care and a lower death rate. A richer economy also usually has a lower birth rate. In fact, just about any long-term model of a
real economy should link together the two structures of population and capital to show how they affect each other. The central question of economic development is how to keep the
reinforcing loop of capital accumulation from growing more slowly than the reinforcing loop of population growth—so that people are getting richer instead of poorer.4 Systems with
similar feedIt may seem strange to you that I call the capital back structures produce system the same kind of “zoo animal” as the popusimilar dynamic behaviors. lation system. A
production system with factories and shipments and economic flows doesn’t look much like a population system with babies being born and people aging TIS final pgs 50 5/2/09
10:37:37 CHAPTER TWO: A BRIEF VISIT TO THE SYSTEMS ZOO 51 and having more babies and dying. But from a systems point of view these systems, so dissimilar in many ways, have one
important thing in common: their feedback-loop structures. Both have a stock governed by a reinforcing growth loop and a balancing death loop. Both also have an aging process.
Steel mills and lathes and turbines get older and die just as people do. One of the central insights of systems theory, as central as the observation that systems largely cause
their own behavior, is that systems with similar feedback structures produce similar dynamic behaviors, even if the outward appearance of these systems is completely dissimilar. A
population is nothing like an industrial economy, except that both can reproduce themselves out of themselves and thus grow exponentially. And both age and die. A coffee cup
cooling is like a warmed room cooling, and like a radioactive substance decaying, and like a population or industrial economy aging and dying. Each declines as the result of a
balancing feedback loop. A System with Delays—Business Inventory Picture a stock of inventory in a store—a car dealership—with an inflow of deliveries from factories and an outflow
of new car sales. By itself, this stock of cars on the dealership lot would behave like the water in a bathtub. deliveries sales inventory of cars on the lot B B orders to factory
discrepancy customer demand perceived sales desired inventory Figure 29. Inventory at a car dealership is kept steady by two competing balancing loops, one through sales and one
through deliveries. TIS final pgs 51 5/2/09 10:37:37 52 PART ONE: SYSTEM STRUCTURE AND BEHAVIOR Now picture a regulatory feedback system designed to keep the inventory high enough
so that it can always cover ten days’ worth of sales (see Figure 29). The car dealer needs to keep some inventory because deliveries and purchases don’t match perfectly every day.
Customers make purchases that are unpredictable on a day-to-day basis. The car dealer also needs to provide herself with some extra inventory (a buffer) in case deliveries from
suppliers are delayed occasionally. The dealer monitors sales (perceived sales), and if, for example, they seem to be rising, she adjusts orders to the factory to bring inventory
up to her new desired inventory that provides ten days’ coverage at the higher sales rate. So, higher sales mean higher perceived sales, which means a higher discrepancy between
inventory and desired inventory, which means higher orders, which will bring in more deliveries, which will raise inventory so it can comfortably supply the higher rate of sales.
This system is a version of the thermostat system—one balancing loop of sales draining the inventory stock and a competing balancing loop maintaining the inventory by resupplying
what is lost in sales. Figure 30 shows the not very surprising result of an increase in consumer demand of 10 percent. In Figure 31, I am putting something else into this simple
model—three delays that are typical of what we experience in the real world. First, there is a perception delay, intentional in this case. The car dealer doesn’t react to just any
blip in sales. Before she makes ordering decisions, 500 cars on the lot 400 300 200 100 0 0 10 20 30 40 50 days 60 70 80 90 100 Figure 30. Inventory on the car dealership’s lot
with a permanent 10-percent increase in consumer demand starting on day 25. TIS final pgs 52 5/2/09 10:37:37 CHAPTER TWO: A BRIEF VISIT TO THE SYSTEMS ZOO delivery delay deliveries
53 sales inventory of cars on the lot B orders to factory customer demand B discrepancy perceived sales desired inventory response delay perception delay Figure 31. Inventory at a
car dealership with three common delays now included in the picture—a perception delay, a response delay, and a delivery delay. she averages sales over the past five days to sort
out real trends from temporary dips and spikes. Second, there is a response delay. Even when it’s clear that orders need to be adjusted, she doesn’t try to make up the whole
adjustment in a single order. Rather, she makes up one-third of any shortfall with each order. Another way of saying that is, she makes partial adjustments over three days to be
extra sure the trend is real. Third, there is a delivery delay. It takes five days for the supplier at the factory to receive an order, process it, and 500 cars on the lot 400 300
200 100 0 0 10 20 30 40 50 days 60 70 80 90 100 Figure 32. Response of inventory to a 10-percent increase in sales when there are delays in the system. TIS final pgs 53 5/2/09
10:37:37 54 PART ONE: SYSTEM STRUCTURE AND BEHAVIOR deliver it to the dealership. Although this system still consists of just two balancing loops, like the simplified thermostat
system, it doesn’t behave like the thermostat system. Look at what happens, for example, as shown in Figure 32, when the business experiences the same permanent 10-percent jump in
sales from an increase in customer demand. Oscillations! A single step up in sales causes inventory to drop. The car dealer watches long enough to be sure the higher sales rate is
going to last. Then she begins to order more cars to both cover the new rate of sales and bring the inventory up. But it takes time for the orders to come in. During that time
inventory drops further, so orders have to go up a little more, to bring inventory back up to ten days’ coverage. Eventually, the larger volume of orders starts arriving, and
inventory recovers—and more than recovers, because during the time of uncertainty about the actual trend, the owner has ordered too much. She now sees her mistake, and cuts back,
but there are still high past orders coming in, so she orders even less. In fact, almost inevitably, since she still can’t be sure of what is going to happen next, she orders too
little. Inventory gets too low again. And so forth, through a series of oscillations around the new desired inventory level. As Figure 33 illustrates, what a difference a few
delays make! We’ll see in a moment that there are ways to damp these oscillations in inventory, but first it’s important to understand why they occur. It isn’t because the car
dealer is stupid. It’s because she is struggling to operate in a system in which she doesn’t have, and can’t A delay in a balancing have, timely information and in which physical
feedback loop makes a delays prevent her actions from having an immedisystem likely to oscillate. ate effect on inventory. She doesn’t know what her customers will do next. When
they do something, she’s not sure they’ll keep doing it. When she issues an order, she doesn’t see an immediate response. This situation of information insufficiency and physical
delays is very common. Oscillations like these are frequently encountered in inventories and in many other systems. Try taking a shower sometime where there’s a very long pipe
between the hot- and cold-water mixer and the showerhead, and you’ll experience directly the joys of hot and cold oscillations because of a long response delay. How much of a delay
causes what kind of oscillation under what circum- TIS final pgs 54 5/2/09 10:37:37 CHAPTER TWO: A BRIEF VISIT TO THE SYSTEMS ZOO 60 55 A: Sales and perceived sales cars per day 45
30 15 0 0 10 20 30 40 50 days 60 70 60 80 90 100 B: Orders and deliveries cars per day 45 30 15 0 0 10 20 30 40 50 days 60 70 80 90 100 Figure 33. The response of orders and
deliveries to an increase in demand. A shows the small but sharp step up in sales on day 25 and the car dealer’s “perceived” sales, in which she averages the change over 3 days. B
shows the resulting ordering pattern, tracked by the actual deliveries from the factory. stances is not a simple matter. I can use this inventory system to show you why. “These
oscillations are intolerable,” says the car dealer (who is herself a learning system, determined now to change the behavior of the inventory system). “I’m going to shorten the
delays. There’s not much I can do about the delivery delay from the factory, so I’m going to react faster myself. I’ll average sales trends over only two days instead of five
before I make order adjustments.” Figure 34 illustrates what happens when the dealer’s perception delay is TIS final pgs 55 5/2/09 10:37:37 56 PART ONE: SYSTEM STRUCTURE AND
BEHAVIOR shortened from five days to two. Not much happens when the car dealer shortens her perception delay. If anything the oscillations in the inventory of cars on the lot are a
bit worse. And if, instead of shortening her perception time, the car dealer tries shortening her reaction time—making up perceived shortfalls in two days instead of three—things
get very much worse, as shown in Figure 35. Something has to change and, since this system has a learning person 500 400 cars 300 200 100 0 0 10 20 30 40 50 days 60 70 80 90 100
Figure 34. The response of inventory to the same increase in demand with a shortened perception delay. 500 400 cars 300 200 100 0 0 10 20 30 40 50 days 60 70 80 90 100 Figure 35.
The response of inventory to the same increase in demand with a shortened reaction time. Acting faster makes the oscillations worse! TIS final pgs 56 5/2/09 10:37:37 CHAPTER TWO: A
BRIEF VISIT TO THE SYSTEMS ZOO 57 within it, something will change. “High leverage, wrong direction,” the system-thinking car dealer says to herself as she watches this failure of
a policy intended to stabilize the oscillations. This perverse kind of result can be seen all the time—someone trying to fix a system is attracted intuitively to a policy lever
that in fact does have a strong effect on the system. And then the well-intentioned fixer pulls the lever in the wrong direction! This is just one example of how we can be
surprised by the counterintuitive behavior of systems when we start trying to change them. Part of the problem here is that the car dealer has been reacting not too slowly, but too
quickly. Given the configuration of this system, she has been overreacting. Things would go better if, instead of decreasing her response delay from three days to two, she would
increase the delay from three days to six, as illustrated in Delays are pervasive in systems, Figure 36. and they are strong determiAs Figure 36 shows, the oscillations are greatly
nants of behavior. Changing damped with this change, and the system finds the length of a delay may (or may not, depending on the its new equilibrium fairly efficiently. The most
important delay in this system is type of delay and the relative the one that is not under the direct control of lengths of other delays) make a large change in the behavthe car
dealer. It’s the delay in delivery from the ior of a system. factory. But even without the ability to change that part of her system, the dealer can learn to manage inventory quite
well. 500 400 cars 300 200 100 0 0 10 20 30 40 50 days 60 70 80 90 100 Figure 36. The response of inventory to the same increase in demand with a slowed reaction time. TIS final
pgs 57 5/2/09 10:37:37 58 PART ONE: SYSTEM STRUCTURE AND BEHAVIOR Changing the delays in a system can make it much easier or much harder to manage. You can see why system thinkers
are somewhat fanatic on the subject of delays. We’re always on the alert to see where delays occur in systems, how long they are, whether they are delays in information streams or
in physical processes. We can’t begin to understand the dynamic behavior of systems unless we know where and how long the delays are. And we are aware that some delays can be
powerful policy levers. Lengthening or shortening them can produce major changes in the behavior of systems. In the big picture, one store’s inventory problem may seem trivial and
fixable. But imagine that the inventory is that of all the unsold automobiles in America. Orders for more or fewer cars affect production not only at assembly plants and parts
factories, but also at steel mills, rubber and glass plants, textile producers, and energy producers. Everywhere in this system are perception delays, production delays, delivery
delays, and construction delays. Now consider the link between car production and jobs—increased production increases the number of jobs allowing more people to buy cars. That’s a
reinforcing loop, which also works in the opposite direction— less production, fewer jobs, fewer car sales, less production. Put in another reinforcing loop, as speculators buy and
sell shares in the auto and autosupply companies based on their recent performance, so that an upsurge in production produces an upsurge in stock price, and vice versa. That very
large system, with interconnected industries responding to each other through delays, entraining each other in their oscillations, and being amplified by multipliers and
speculators, is the primary cause of business cycles. Those cycles don’t come from presidents, although presidents can do much to ease or intensify the optimism of the upturns and
the pain of the downturns. Economies are extremely complex systems; they are full of balancing feedback loops with delays, and they are inherently oscillatory.5 Two-Stock Systems A
Renewable Stock Constrained by a Nonrenewable Stock—an Oil Economy The systems I’ve displayed so far have been free of constraints imposed by their surroundings. The capital stock
of the industrial economy model didn’t require raw materials to produce output. The population didn’t need food. The thermostat-furnace system never ran out of oil. These simple
TIS final pgs 58 5/2/09 10:37:37 CHAPTER TWO: A BRIEF VISIT TO THE SYSTEMS ZOO 59 models of the systems have been able to operate according to their unconstrained internal
dynamics, so we could see what those dynamics are. But any real physical entity is always surrounded by and exchanging things with its environment. A corporation needs a constant
supply of energy and materials and workers and managers and customers. A growing corn crop needs water and nutrients and protection from pests. A population needs food and water
and living space, and if it’s a human population, it needs jobs and education and health care and a multitude of other things. Any entity that is using energy and processing
materials needs a place to put its wastes, or a process to carry its wastes away. Therefore, any physical, growing system is going to run into some kind of constraint, sooner or
later. That constraint will take the form of a balancing loop that in some way shifts the dominance of the reinforcing loop driving the growth behavior, either by strengthening the
outflow or by weakening the inflow. Growth in a constrained environment is very common, so common that systems thinkers call it the “limits-to-growth” archetype. (We’ll explore
more archetypes—frequently found system structures that produce familiar behavior patterns—in Chapter Five.) Whenever we see a growing entity, whether it be a population, a
corporation, a bank account, a rumor, an epidemic, or sales of a new product, we look for the reinforcing loops that are driving it and for the balancing loops that ultiIn
physical, exponentially mately will constrain it. We know those balancing growing systems, there loops are there, even if they are not yet dominat- must be at least one reining the
system’s behavior, because no real physical forcing loop driving the system can grow forever. Even a hot new product growth and at least one will saturate the market eventually. A
chain reac- balancing loop constraintion in a nuclear power plant or bomb will run out ing the growth, because of fuel. A virus will run out of susceptible people to no physical
system can infect. An economy may be constrained by physical grow forever in a ﬁnite environment. capital or monetary capital or labor or markets or management or resources or
pollution. Like resources that supply the inflows to a stock, a pollution constraint can be renewable or nonrenewable. It’s nonrenewable if the environment has no capacity to
absorb the pollutant or make it harmless. It’s renewable if the environment has a finite, usually variable, capacity for removal. Everything said here about resource-constrained
systems, therefore, TIS final pgs 59 5/2/09 10:37:38 60 PART ONE: SYSTEM STRUCTURE AND BEHAVIOR applies with the same dynamics but opposite flow directions to pollutionconstrained
systems. The limits on a growing system may be temporary or permanent. The system may find ways to get around them for a short while or a long while, but eventually there must come
some kind of accommodation, the system adjusting to the constraint, or the constraint to the system, or both to each other. In that accommodation come some interesting dynamics.
Whether the constraining balancing loops originate from a renewable or nonrenewable resource makes some difference, not in whether growth can continue forever, but in how growth is
likely to end. Let’s look, to start, at a capital system that makes its money by extracting a nonrenewable resource—say an oil company that has just discovered a huge new oil
field. See Figure 37. The diagram in Figure 37 may look complicated, but it’s no more than growth goal investment depreciation capital R B capital lifetime proﬁt price B yield per
unit capital resource extraction Figure 37. Economic capital, with its reinforcing growth loop constrained by a nonrenewable resource. TIS final pgs 60 5/2/09 10:37:38 CHAPTER TWO:
A BRIEF VISIT TO THE SYSTEMS ZOO 61 a capital-growth system like the one we’ve already seen, using “profit” instead of “output.” Driving depreciation is the now-familiar balancing
loop: the more capital stock, the more machines and refineries there are that fall apart and wear out, reducing the stock of capital. In this example, the capital stock of oil
drilling and refining equipment depreciates with a 20-year lifetime—meaning 1/20 (or 5 percent) of the stock is taken out of commission each year. It builds itself up through
investment of profits from oil extraction. So we see the reinforcing loop: More capital allows more resource extraction, creating more profits that can be reinvested. I’ve assumed
that the company has a goal of 5 percent annual growth in its business capital. If there isn’t enough profit for 5 percent growth, the company invests whatever profits it can.
Profit is income minus cost. Income in this simple representation is just the price of oil times the amount of oil the company extracts. Cost is equal to capital times the
operating cost (energy, labor, materials, etc.) per unit of capital. For the moment, I’ll make the simplifying assumptions that both price and operating cost per unit of capital
