inappropriate, out of proportion, unsustainable, morally degrading, ecologically impoverishing, or humanly demeaning, don’t let it pass. Don’t be stopped by the “if you can’t TIS
final pgs 176 5/2/09 10:37:42 CHAPTER SEVEN: LIVING IN A WORLD OF SYSTEMS 177 define it and measure it, I don’t have to pay attention to it” ploy. No one can define or measure
justice, democracy, security, freedom, truth, or love. No one can define or measure any value. But if no one speaks up for them, if systems aren’t designed to produce them, if we
don’t speak about them and point toward their presence or absence, they will cease to exist. Make Feedback Policies for Feedback Systems President Jimmy Carter had an unusual
ability to think in feedback terms and to make feedback policies. Unfortunately, he had a hard time explaining them to a press and public that didn’t understand feedback. He
suggested, at a time when oil imports were soaring, that there be a tax on gasoline proportional to the fraction of U.S. oil consumption that had to be imported. If imports
continued to rise, the tax would rise until it suppressed demand and brought forth substitutes and reduced imports. If imports fell to zero, the tax would fall to zero. The tax
never got passed. Carter also was trying to deal with a flood of illegal immigrants from Mexico. He suggested that nothing could be done about that immigration as long as there was
a great gap in opportunity and living standards between the United States and Mexico. Rather than spending money on border guards and barriers, he said, we should spend money
helping to build the Mexican economy, and we should continue to do so until the immigration stopped. That never happened either. You can imagine why a dynamic, self-adjusting
feedback system cannot be governed by a static, unbending policy. It’s easier, more effective, and usually much cheaper to design policies that change depending on the state of the
system. Especially where there are great uncertainties, the best policies not only contain feedback loops, but meta-feedback loops—loops that alter, correct, and expand loops.
These are policies that design learning into the management process. An example was the historic Montreal Protocol to protect the ozone layer of the stratosphere. In 1987, when
that protocol was signed, there was no certainty about the danger to the ozone layer, about the rate at which it was degrading, or about the specific effect of different chemicals.
The protocol TIS final pgs 177 5/2/09 10:37:42 178 PART THREE: CREATING CHANGE—IN SYSTEMS AND IN OUR PHILOSOPHY set targets for how fast the manufacture of the most damaging
chemicals should be decreased. But it also required monitoring the situation and reconvening an international congress to change the phase-out schedule, if the damage to the ozone
layer turned out to be more or less than expected. Just three years later, in 1990, the schedule had to be hurried forward and more chemicals added to it, because the damage was
turning out to be much greater than was foreseen in 1987. That was a feedback policy, structured for learning. We all hope that it worked in time. Go for the Good of the Whole
Remember that hierarchies exist to serve the bottom layers, not the top. Don’t maximize parts of systems or subsystems while ignoring the whole. Don’t, as Kenneth Boulding once
said, go to great trouble to optimize something that never should be done at all. Aim to enhance total systems properties, such as growth, stability, diversity, resilience, and
sustainability—whether they are easily measured or not. Listen to the Wisdom of the System Aid and encourage the forces and structures that help the system run itself. Notice how
many of those forces and structures are at the bottom of the hierarchy. Don’t be an unthinking intervenor and destroy the system’s own self-maintenance capacities. Before you
charge in to make things better, pay attention to the value of what’s already there. A friend of mine, Nathan Gray, was once an aid worker in Guatemala. He told me of his
frustration with agencies that would arrive with the intention of “creating jobs” and “increasing entrepreneurial abilities” and “attracting outside investors.” They would walk
right past the thriving local market, where small-scale business people of all kinds, from basket makers to vegetable growers to butchers to candy sellers, were displaying their
entrepreneurial abilities in jobs they had created for themselves. Nathan spent his time talking to the people in the market, asking about their lives and businesses, learning what
was in the way of those businesses expanding TIS final pgs 178 5/2/09 10:37:42 CHAPTER SEVEN: LIVING IN A WORLD OF SYSTEMS 179 and incomes rising. He concluded that what was needed
was not outside investors, but inside ones. Small loans available at reasonable interest rates, and classes in literacy and accounting, would produce much more longterm good for
the community than bringing in a factory or assembly plant from outside. Locate Responsibility in the System That’s a guideline both for analysis and design. In analysis, it means
looking for the ways the system creates its own behavior. Do pay attention to the triggering events, the outside influences that bring forth one kind of behavior from the system
rather than another. Sometimes those outside events can be controlled (as in reducing the pathogens in drinking water to keep down incidences of infectious disease). But sometimes
they can’t. And sometimes blaming or trying to control the outside influence blinds one to the easier task of increasing responsibility within the system. “Intrinsic
responsibility” means that the system is designed to send feedback about the consequences of decision making directly and quickly and compellingly to the decision makers. Because
the pilot of a plane rides in the front of the plane, that pilot is intrinsically responsible. He or she will experience directly the consequences of his or her decisions.
Dartmouth College reduced intrinsic responsibility when it took thermostats out of individual offices and classrooms and put temperature-control decisions under the guidance of a
central computer. That was done as an energy-saving measure. My observation from a low level in the hierarchy was that the main consequence was greater oscillations in room
temperature. When my office got overheated, instead of turning down the thermostat, I had to call an office across campus, which got around to making corrections over a period of
hours or days, and which often overcorrected, setting up the need for another phone call. One way of making that system more, rather than less, responsible might have been to let
professors keep control of their own thermostats and charge them directly for the amount of energy they use, thereby privatizing a commons! Designing a system for intrinsic
responsibility could mean, for example, requiring all towns or companies that emit wastewater into a stream to place their intake pipes downstream from their outflow pipe. It could
mean TIS final pgs 179 5/2/09 10:37:42 180 PART THREE: CREATING CHANGE—IN SYSTEMS AND IN OUR PHILOSOPHY that neither insurance companies nor public funds should pay for medical
costs resulting from smoking or from accidents in which a motorcycle rider didn’t wear a helmet or a car rider didn’t fasten the seat belt. It could mean Congress would no longer
be allowed to legislate rules from which it exempts itself. (There are many rules from which Congress has exempted itself, including affirmative action hiring requirements and the
necessity of preparing environmental impact statements.) A great deal of responsibility was lost when rulers who declared war were no longer expected to lead the troops into
battle. Warfare became even more irresponsible when it became possible to push a button and cause tremendous damage at such a distance that the person pushing the button never even
sees the damage. Garrett Hardin has suggested that people who want to prevent other people from having an abortion are not practicing intrinsic responsibility, unless they are
personally willing to bring up the resulting child!7 These few examples are enough to get you thinking about how little our current culture has come to look for responsibility
within the system that generates an action, and how poorly we design systems to experience the consequences of their actions. Stay Humble—Stay a Learner Systems thinking has taught
me to trust my intuition more and my figuring-out rationality less, to lean on both as much as I can, but still to be prepared for surprises. Working with systems, on the computer,
in nature, among people, in organizations, constantly reminds me of how incomplete my mental models are, how complex the world is, and how much I don’t know. The thing to do, when
you don’t know, is not to bluff and not to freeze, but to learn. The way you learn is by experiment—or, as Buckminster Fuller put it, by trial and error, error, error. In a world
of complex systems, it is not appropriate to charge forward with rigid, undeviating directives. “Stay the course” is only a good idea if you’re sure you’re on course. Pretending
you’re in control even when you aren’t is a recipe not only for mistakes, but for not learning from mistakes. What’s appropriate when you’re learning is small steps, constant
monitoring, and a willingness to change course as you find out more about where it’s leading. TIS final pgs 180 5/2/09 10:37:42 CHAPTER SEVEN: LIVING IN A WORLD OF SYSTEMS 181
That’s hard. It means making mistakes and, worse, admitting them. It means what psychologist Don Michael calls “error-embracing.” It takes a lot of courage to embrace your errors.
Neither we ourselves, nor our associates, nor the publics that need to be involved . . . can learn what is going on and might go on if we act as if we really had the facts, were
really certain about all the issues, knew exactly what the outcomes should/ could be, and were really certain that we were attaining the most preferred outcomes. Moreover, when
addressing complex social issues, acting as if we knew what we were doing simply decreases our credibility. . . . Distrust of institutions and authority figures is increasing. The
very act of acknowledging uncertainty could help greatly to reverse this worsening trend.8 Error-embracing is the condition for learning. It means seeking and using—and
sharing—information about what went wrong with what you expected or hoped would go right. Both error embracing and living with high levels of uncertainty emphasize our personal as
well as societal vulnerability. Typically we hide our vulnerabilities from ourselves as well as from others. But . . . to be the kind of person who truly accepts his responsibility
. . . requires knowledge of and access to self far beyond that possessed by most people in this society.9 Celebrate Complexity Let’s face it, the universe is messy. It is
nonlinear, turbulent, and dynamic. It spends its time in transient behavior on its way to somewhere else, not in mathematically neat equilibria. It self-organizes and evolves. It
creates diversity and uniformity. That’s what makes the world interesting, that’s what makes it beautiful, and that’s what makes it work. There’s something within the human mind
that is attracted to straight lines and not curves, to whole numbers and not fractions, to uniformity and not diversity, and to certainties and not mystery. But there is something
else within us that has the opposite set of tendencies, since we ourselves evolved TIS final pgs 181 5/2/09 10:37:43 182 PART THREE: CREATING CHANGE—IN SYSTEMS AND IN OUR
PHILOSOPHY out of and are shaped by and structured as complex feedback systems. Only a part of us, a part that has emerged recently, designs buildings as boxes with uncompromising
straight lines and flat surfaces. Another part of us recognizes instinctively that nature designs in fractals, with intriguing detail on every scale from the microscopic to the
macroscopic. That part of us makes Gothic cathedrals and Persian carpets, symphonies and novels, Mardi Gras costumes and artificial intelligence programs, all with embellishments
almost as complex as the ones we find in the world around us. We can, and some of us do, celebrate and encourage self-organization, disorder, variety, and diversity. Some of us
even make a moral code of doing so, as Aldo Leopold did with his land ethic: “A thing is right when it tends to preserve the integrity, stability, and beauty of the biotic
community. It is wrong when it tends otherwise.”10 Expand Time Horizons One of the worst ideas humanity ever had was the interest rate, which led to the further ideas of payback
periods and discount rates, all of which provide a rational, quantitative excuse for ignoring the long term. The official time horizon of industrial society doesn’t extend beyond
what will happen after the next election or beyond the payback period of current investments. The time horizon of most families still extends farther than that—through the
lifetimes of children or grandchildren. Many Native American cultures actively spoke of and considered in their decisions the effects on the seventh generation to come. The longer
the operant time horizon, the better the chances for survival. As Kenneth Boulding wrote: There is a great deal of historical evidence to suggest that a society which loses its
identity with posterity and which loses its positive image of the future loses also its capacity to deal with present problems, and soon falls apart. . . . There has always been
something rather refreshing in the view that we should live like the birds, and perhaps posterity is for the birds in more senses than one; so perhaps we should all . . . go out
and pollute something cheerfully. As an old taker of thought for the morrow, however, I cannot quite accept this solution. . . .11 TIS final pgs 182 5/2/09 10:37:43 CHAPTER SEVEN:
LIVING IN A WORLD OF SYSTEMS 183 In a strict systems sense, there is no long-term, short-term distinction. Phenomena at different time-scales are nested within each other. Actions
taken now have some immediate effects and some that radiate out for decades to come. We experience now the consequences of actions set in motion yesterday and decades ago and
centuries ago. The couplings between very fast processes and very slow ones are sometimes strong, sometimes weak. When the slow ones dominate, nothing seems to be happening; when
the fast ones take over, things happen with breathtaking speed. Systems are always coupling and uncoupling the large and the small, the fast and the slow. When you’re walking along
a tricky, curving, unknown, surprising, obstacle-strewn path, you’d be a fool to keep your head down and look just at the next step in front of you. You’d be equally a fool just to
peer far ahead and never notice what’s immediately under your feet. You need to be watching both the short and the long term—the whole system. Defy the Disciplines In spite of what
you majored in, or what the textbooks say, or what you think you’re an expert at, follow a system wherever it leads. It will be sure to lead across traditional disciplinary lines.
To understand that system, you will have to be able to learn from—while not being limited by—economists and chemists and psychologists and theologians. You will have to penetrate
their jargons, integrate what they tell you, recognize what they can honestly see through their particular lenses, and discard the distortions that come from the narrowness and
incompleteness of their lenses. They won’t make it easy for you. Seeing systems whole requires more than being “interdisciplinary,” if that word means, as it usually does, putting
together people from different disciplines and letting them talk past each other. Interdisciplinary communication works only if there is a real problem to be solved, and if the
representatives from the various disciplines are more committed to solving the problem than to being academically correct. They will have to go into learning mode. They will have
to admit ignorance and be willing to be taught, by each other and by the system. It can be done. It’s very exciting when it happens. TIS final pgs 183 5/2/09 10:37:43 184 PART
THREE: CREATING CHANGE—IN SYSTEMS AND IN OUR PHILOSOPHY Expand the Boundary of Caring Living successfully in a world of complex systems means expanding not only time horizons and
thought horizons; above all, it means expanding the horizons of caring. There are moral reasons for doing that, of course. And if moral arguments are not sufficient, then systems
thinking provides the practical reasons to back up the moral ones. The real system is interconnected. No part of the human race is separate either from other human beings or from
the global ecosystem. It will not be possible in this integrated world for your heart to succeed if your lungs fail, or for your company to succeed if your workers fail, or for the
rich in Los Angeles to succeed if the poor in Los Angeles fail, or for Europe to succeed if Africa fails, or for the global economy to succeed if the global environment fails. As
with everything else about systems, most people already know about the interconnections that make moral and practical rules turn out to be the same rules. They just have to bring
themselves to believe that which they know. Don’t Erode the Goal of Goodness The most damaging example of the systems archetype called “drift to low performance” is the process by
which modern industrial culture has eroded the goal of morality. The workings of the trap have been classic, and awful to behold. Examples of bad human behavior are held up,
magnified by the media, affirmed by the culture, as typical. This is just what you would expect. After all, we’re only human. The far more numerous examples of human goodness are
barely noticed. They are “not news.” They are exceptions. Must have been a saint. Can’t expect everyone to behave like that. And so expectations are lowered. The gap between
desired behavior and actual behavior narrows. Fewer actions are taken to affirm and instill ideals. The public discourse is full of cynicism. Public leaders are visibly,
unrepentantly amoral or immoral and are not held to account. Idealism is ridiculed. Statements of moral belief are suspect. It is much easier to talk about hate in public than to
talk about love. The literary critic and naturalist Joseph Wood Krutch put it this way: TIS final pgs 184 5/2/09 10:37:43 CHAPTER SEVEN: LIVING IN A WORLD OF SYSTEMS 185 Thus
though man has never before been so complacent about what he has, or so confident of his ability to do whatever he sets his mind upon, it is at the same time true that he never
before accepted so low an estimate of what he is. That same scientific method which enabled him to create his wealth and to unleash the power he wields has, he believes, enabled
biology and psychology to explain him away—or at least to explain away whatever used to seem unique or even in any way mysterious. . . . Truly he is, for all his wealth and power,
poor in spirit.12 We know what to do about drift to low performance. Don’t weigh the bad news more heavily than the good. And keep standards absolute. Systems thinking can only
tell us to do that. It can’t do it. We’re back to the gap between understanding and implementation. Systems thinking by itself cannot bridge that gap, but it can lead us to the
edge of what analysis can do and then point beyond—to what can and must be done by the human spirit. TIS final pgs 185 5/2/09 10:37:43 TIS final pgs 186 5/2/09 10:37:43 Appendix
System Deﬁnitions: A Glossary Archetypes: Common system structures that produce characteristic patterns of behavior. Balancing feedback loop: A stabilizing, goal-seeking,
regulating feedback loop, also know as a “negative feedback loop” because it opposes, or reverses, whatever direction of change is imposed on the system. Bounded rationality: The
logic that leads to decisions or actions that make sense within one part of a system but are not reasonable within a broader context or when seen as a part of the wider system.
Dynamic equilibrium: The condition in which the state of a stock (its level or its size) is steady and unchanging, despite inflows and outflows. This is possible only when all
inflows equal all outflows. Dynamics: The behavior over time of a system or any of its components. Feedback loop: The mechanism (rule or information flow or signal) that allows a
change in a stock to affect a flow into or out of that same stock. A closed chain of causal connections from a stock, through a set of decisions and actions dependent on the level
of the stock, and back again through a flow to change the stock. Flow: Material or information that enters or leaves a stock over a period of time. Hierarchy: Systems organized in
such a way as to create a larger system. Subsystems within systems. Limiting factor: A necessary system input that is the one limiting the activity of the system at a particular
moment. Linear relationship: A relationship between two elements in a system that has constant proportion between cause and effect and so can be drawn with a straight line on a
graph. The effect is additive. Nonlinear relationship: A relationship between two elements in a system where the cause does not produce a proportional (straight-line) effect.
Reinforcing feedback loop: An amplifying or enhancing feedback loop, also known as a “positive feedback loop” because it reinforces the direction of change. These are vicious
cycles and virtuous circles. TIS final pgs 187 5/2/09 10:37:43 188 APPENDIX Resilience: The ability of a system to recover from perturbation; the ability to restore or repair or
bounce back after a change due to an outside force. Self-organization: The ability of a system to structure itself, to create new structure, to learn, or diversify. Shifting
dominance: The change over time of the relative strengths of competing feedback loops. Stock: An accumulation of material or information that has built up in a system over time.
Suboptimization: The behavior resulting from a subsystem’s goals dominating at the expense of the total system’s goals. System: A set of elements or parts that is coherently
organized and interconnected in a pattern or structure that produces a characteristic set of behaviors, often classified as its “function” or “purpose.” Summary of Systems
Principles Systems • A system is more than the sum of its parts. • Many of the interconnections in systems operate through the flow of information. • The least obvious part of the
system, its function or purpose, is often the most crucial determinant of the system’s behavior. • System structure is the source of system behavior. System behavior reveals itself
as a series of events over time. Stocks, Flows, and Dynamic Equilibrium • A stock is the memory of the history of changing flows within the system. • If the sum of inflows exceeds
the sum of outflows, the stock level will rise. • If the sum of outflows exceeds the sum of inflows, the stock level will fall. • If the sum of outflows equals the sum of inflows,
the stock level will not change — it will be held in dynamic equilibrium. • A stock can be increased by decreasing its outflow rate as well as by increasing its inflow rate. TIS
final pgs 188 5/2/09 10:37:43 APPENDIX 189 • Stocks act as delays or buffers or shock absorbers in systems. • Stocks allow inflows and outflows to be de-coupled and independent.
Feedback Loops • A feedback loop is a closed chain of causal connections from a stock, through a set of decisions or rules or physical laws or actions that are dependent on the
level of the stock, and back again through a flow to change the stock. • Balancing feedback loops are equilibrating or goal-seeking structures in systems and are both sources of
stability and sources of resistance to change. • Reinforcing feedback loops are self-enhancing, leading to exponential growth or to runaway collapses over time. • The information
delivered by a feedback loop—even nonphysical feedback—can affect only future behavior; it can’t deliver a signal fast enough to correct behavior that drove the current feedback. •
A stock-maintaining balancing feedback loop must have its goal set appropriately to compensate for draining or inflowing processes that affect that stock. Otherwise, the feedback
process will fall short of or exceed the target for the stock. • Systems with similar feedback structures produce similar dynamic behaviors. Shifting Dominance, Delays, and
Oscillations • Complex behaviors of systems often arise as the relative strengths of feedback loops shift, causing first one loop and then another to dominate behavior. • A delay
in a balancing feedback loop makes a system likely to oscillate. • Changing the length of a delay may make a large change in the behavior of a system. Scenarios and Testing Models
• System dynamics models explore possible futures and ask “what if ” questions. TIS final pgs 189 5/2/09 10:37:43 190 APPENDIX • Model utility depends not on whether its driving
scenarios are realistic (since no one can know that for sure), but on whether it responds with a realistic pattern of behavior. Constraints on Systems • In physical, exponentially
growing systems, there must be at least one reinforcing loop driving the growth and at least one balancing loop constraining the growth, because no system can grow forever in a
finite environment. • Nonrenewable resources are stock-limited. • Renewable resources are flow-limited. Resilience, Self-Organization, and Hierarchy • There are always limits to
resilience. • Systems need to be managed not only for productivity or stability, they also need to be managed for resilience. • Systems often have the property of
self-organization—the ability to structure themselves, to create new structure, to learn, diversify, and complexify. • Hierarchical systems evolve from the bottom up. The purpose
of the upper layers of the hierarchy is to serve the purposes of the lower layers. Source of System Surprises • Many relationships in systems are nonlinear. • There are no separate
systems. The world is a continuum. Where to draw a boundary around a system depends on the purpose of the discussion. • At any given time, the input that is most important to a
system is the one that is most limiting. • Any physical entity with multiple inputs and outputs is surrounded by layers of limits. • There always will be limits to growth. • A
quantity growing exponentially toward a limit reaches that limit in a surprisingly short time. • When there are long delays in feedback loops, some sort of foresight is essential.
TIS final pgs 190 5/2/09 10:37:43 APPENDIX 191 • The bounded rationality of each actor in a system may not lead to decisions that further the welfare of the system as a whole.
Mindsets and Models • Everything we think we know about the world is a model. • Our models do have a strong congruence with the world. • Our models fall far short of representing
the real world fully. Springing the System Traps Policy Resistance Trap: When various actors try to pull a system state toward various goals, the result can be policy resistance.
Any new policy, especially if it’s effective, just pulls the system state farther from the goals of other actors and produces additional resistance, with a result that no one
likes, but that everyone expends considerable effort in maintaining. The Way Out: Let go. Bring in all the actors and use the energy formerly expended on resistance to seek out
mutually satisfactory ways for all goals to be realized—or redefinitions of larger and more important goals that everyone can pull toward together. The Tragedy of the Commons Trap:
When there is a commonly shared resource, every user benefits directly from its use, but shares the costs of its abuse with everyone else. Therefore, there is very weak feedback
from the condition of the resource to the decisions of the resource users. The consequence is overuse of the resource, eroding it until it becomes unavailable to anyone. The Way
Out: Educate and exhort the users, so they understand the consequences of abusing the resource. And also restore or strengthen the missing feedback link, either by privatizing the
resource so each user feels the direct consequences of its abuse or (since many resources cannot be privatized) by regulating the access of all users to the resource. Drift to Low
Performance Trap: Allowing performance standards to be influenced by past perfor- TIS final pgs 191 5/2/09 10:37:43 192 APPENDIX mance, especially if there is a negative bias in
perceiving past performance, sets up a reinforcing feedback loop of eroding goals that sets a system drifting toward low performance. The Way Out: Keep performance standards
absolute. Even better, let standards be enhanced by the best actual performances instead of being discouraged by the worst. Set up a drift toward high performance! Escalation Trap:
When the state of one stock is determined by trying to surpass the state of another stock—and vice versa—then there is a reinforcing feedback loop carrying the system into an arms
race, a wealth race, a smear campaign, escalating loudness, escalating violence. The escalation is exponential and can lead to extremes surprisingly quickly. If nothing is done,
the spiral will be stopped by someone’s collapse—because exponential growth cannot go on forever. The Way Out: The best way out of this trap is to avoid getting in it. If caught in
an escalating system, one can refuse to compete (unilaterally disarm), thereby interrupting the reinforcing loop. Or one can negotiate a new system with balancing loops to control
the escalation. Success to the Successful Trap: If the winners of a competition are systematically rewarded with the means to win again, a reinforcing feedback loop is created by
which, if it is allowed to proceed uninhibited, the winners eventually take all, while the losers are eliminated. The Way Out: Diversification, which allows those who are losing
the competition to get out of that game and start another one; strict limitation on the fraction of the pie any one winner may win (antitrust laws); policies that level the playing
field, removing some of the advantage of the strongest players or increasing the advantage of the weakest; policies that devise rewards for success that do not bias the next round
of competition. Shifting the Burden to the Intervenor Trap: Shifting the burden, dependence, and addiction arise when a solution to a systemic problem reduces (or disguises) the
symptoms, but does nothing to solve the underlying problem. Whether it is a substance that dulls one’s perception or a policy that hides the underlying trouble, the TIS final pgs
192 5/2/09 10:37:43 APPENDIX 193 drug of choice interferes with the actions that could solve the real problem. If the intervention designed to correct the problem causes the
self-maintaining capacity of the original system to atrophy or erode, then a destructive reinforcing feedback loop is set in motion. The system deteriorates; more and more of the
solution is then required. The system will become more and more dependent on the intervention and less and less able to maintain its own desired state. The Way Out: Again, the best
way out of this trap is to avoid getting in. Beware of symptom-relieving or signal-denying policies or practices that don’t really address the problem. Take the focus off
short-term relief and put it on long-term restructuring. If you are the intervenor, work in such a way as to restore or enhance the system’s own ability to solve its problems, then
remove yourself. If you are the one with an unsupportable dependency, build your system’s own capabilities back up before removing the intervention. Do it right away. The longer
you wait, the harder the withdrawal process will be. Rule Beating Trap: Rules to govern a system can lead to rule-beating—perverse behavior that gives the appearance of obeying the
rules or achieving the goals, but that actually distorts the system. The Way Out: Design, or redesign, rules to release creativity not in the direction of beating the rules, but in
the direction of achieving the purpose of the rules. Seeking the Wrong Goal Trap: System behavior is particularly sensitive to the goals of feedback loops. If the goals—the
indicators of satisfaction of the rules—are defined inaccurately or incompletely, the system may obediently work to produce a result that is not really intended or wanted. The Way
Out: Specify indicators and goals that reflect the real welfare of the system. Be especially careful not to confuse effort with result or you will end up with a system that is
producing effort, not result. TIS final pgs 193 5/2/09 10:37:43 194 APPENDIX Places to Intervene in a System (in increasing order of effectiveness) 12. Numbers: Constants and
parameters such as subsidies, taxes, and standards 11. Buffers: The sizes of stabilizing stocks relative to their flows 10. Stock-and-Flow Structures: Physical systems and their
nodes of intersection 9. Delays: The lengths of time relative to the rates of system changes 8. Balancing Feedback Loops: The strength of the feedbacks relative to the impacts they
are trying to correct 7. Reinforcing Feedback Loops: The strength of the gain of driving loops 6. Information Flows: The structure of who does and does not have access to
information 5. Rules: Incentives, punishments, constraints 4. Self-Organization: The power to add, change, or evolve system structure 3. Goals: The purpose of the system 2.
Paradigms: The mind-set out of which the system—its goals, structure, rules, delays, parameters—arises 1. Transcending Paradigms Guidelines for Living in a World of Systems 1. Get
the beat of the system. 2. Expose your mental models to the light of day. 3. Honor, respect, and distribute information. 4. Use language with care and enrich it with systems
concepts. 5. Pay attention to what is important, not just what is quantifiable. 6. Make feedback policies for feedback systems. 7. Go for the good of the whole. 8. Listen to the
wisdom of the system. 9. Locate responsibility within the system. 10. Stay humble—stay a learner. 11. Celebrate complexity. TIS final pgs 194 5/2/09 10:37:43 APPENDIX 195 12.
Expand time horizons. 13. Defy the disciplines. 14. Expand the boundary of caring. 15. Don’t erode the goal of goodness. Model Equations There is much to be learned about systems
without using a computer. However, once you have started to explore the behavior of even very simple systems, you may well find that you wish to learn more about building your own
formal mathematical models of systems. The models in this book were originally developed using STELLA modeling software, by isee systems Inc. (formerly High Performance Systems).
The equations in this section are written to be easily translated into various modeling software, such as Vensim by Ventana Systems Inc. as well as STELLA and iThink by isee
systems Inc. The following model equations are those used for the nine dynamic models discussed in chapters 1 and 2. “Converters” can be constants or calculations based on other
elements of the system model. Time is abbreviated (t) and the change in time from one calculation to the next, the time interval, is noted as (dt). Chapter One Bathtub—for Figures
5, 6 and 7 Stock: water in tub(t) = water in tub(t – dt) + (inflow – outflow) x dt Initial stock value: water in tub = 50 gal t = minutes dt = 1 minute Run time = 10 minutes
Inflow: inflow = 0 gal/min . . . for time 0 to 5; 5 gal/min . . . for time 6 to 10 Outflow: outflow = 5 gal/min Coffee Cup Cooling or Warming—for Figures 10 and 11 Cooling Stock:
coffee temperature(t) = coffee temperature(t – dt) – (cooling x dt) TIS final pgs 195 5/2/09 10:37:43 196 APPENDIX Initial stock value: coffee temperature = 100°C, 80°C, and 60°C .
. . for three comparative model runs. t = minutes dt = 1 minute Run time = 8 minutes Outflow: cooling = discrepancy x 10% Converters: discrepancy = coffee temperature – room
temperature room temperature = 18°C Warming Stock: coffee temperature(t) = coffee temperature(t – dt) + (heating x dt) Initial stock value: coffee temperature = 0°C, 5°C, and 10°C
. . . for three comparative model runs. t = minutes dt = 1 minute Run time = 8 minutes Inflow: heating = discrepancy x 10% Converters: discrepancy = room temperature – coffee
temperature room temperature = 18°C Bank Account—for Figures 12 and 13 Stock: money in bank account(t) = money in bank account(t – dt) + (interest added x dt) Initial stock value:
money in bank account = $100 t = years dt = 1 year Run time = 12 years Inflow: interest added ($/year) = money in bank account x interest rate Converter: interest rate = 2%, 4%,
6%, 8%, & 10% annual interest . . . for five comparative model runs. Chapter Two Thermostat—For Figures 14-20 Stock: room temperature(t) = room temperature(t – dt) + (heat from
furnace – heat to outside) x dt TIS final pgs 196 5/2/09 10:37:43 APPENDIX 197 Initial stock value: room temperature = 10°C for cold room warming; 18°C for warm room cooling t =
hours dt = 1 hour Run time = 8 hours and 24 hours Inflow: heat from furnace = minimum of discrepancy between desired and actual room temperature or 5 Outflow: heat to outside =
discrepancy between inside and outside temperature x 10% . . . for “normal” house; discrepancy between inside and outside temperature x 30% . . . for very leaky house Converters:
thermostat setting = 18°C discrepancy between desired and actual room temperature = maximum of (thermostat setting – room temperature) or 0 discrepancy between inside and outside
temperature = room temperature – 10°C . . . for constant outside temperature (Figures 16 – 18); room temperature – 24-hour outside temp . . . for full day and night cycle (Figures
19 and 20) 24-hour outside temp ranges from 10°C (50°F) during the day to – 5°C (23°F) at night, as shown in graph Population—for Figures 21–26 Stock: population(t) = population(t
– dt) + (births – deaths) x dt Initial stock value: population = 6.6 billion people t = years Outside temperature over 24-hour cycle 68 15 59 10 50 5 41 0 32 -5 23 0 TIS final pgs
197 temperature ºF temperature ºC 20 6 12 hour 18 24 5/2/09 10:37:43 198 APPENDIX dt = 1 year Run time = 100 years Inflow: births = population x fertility Outflow: deaths =
population x mortality Converters: Figure 22: mortality = .009 . . . or 9 deaths per 1000 population fertility = .021 . . . or 21 births per 1000 population Figure 23: mortality =
.030 fertility = .021 Figure 24: mortality = .009 fertility starts at .021 and falls over time to .009 as shown in graph Figure 26: mortality = .009 fertility starts at .021, drops
to .009, but then rises .030 as shown in graph Capital—for Figures 27 and 28 0.025 Fertility for Figure 24 0.020 0.015 0.010 0.005 0 2000 TIS final pgs 198 2020 2040 2060 2080 2100
2120 5/2/09 10:37:43 APPENDIX 199 Stock: capital stock(t) = capital stock(t – dt) + (investment – depreciation) x dt Initial stock value: capital stock = 100 t = years dt = 1 year
0.035 Fertility for Figure 26 0.030 0.025 0.020 0.015 0.010 0.005 0.000 2000 2020 2040 2060 2080 2100 2120 Run time = 50 years Inflow: investment = annual output x investment
fraction Outflow: depreciation = capital stock / capital lifetime Converters: annual output = capital stock x output per unit capital capital lifetime = 10 years, 15 years, and 20
years . . . for three comparative model runs. investment fraction = 20% output per unit capital = 1/3 Business Inventory—for Figures 29 – 36 Stock: inventory of cars on the lot(t)
= inventory of cars on the lot(t – dt) + (deliveries – sales) x dt Initial stock values: inventory of cars on the lot = 200 cars t = days dt = 1 day Run time = 100 days Inflows:
