system has the power to develop new responses to some kinds of insults it has never before encountered. The human brain can take in new information and pop out completely new
thoughts. The power of self-organization seems so wondrous that we tend to regard it as mysterious, miraculous, heaven sent. Economists often model technology as magic—coming from
nowhere, costing nothing, increasing the productivity of an economy by some steady percent each year. For centuries people have regarded the spectacular variety of nature with the
same awe. Only a divine creator could bring forth such a creation. Further investigation of self-organizing systems reveals that the divine creator, if there is one, does not have
to produce evolutionary miracles. He, she, or it just has to write marvelously clever rules for self-organization. These rules basically govern how, where, and what the system can
add onto or subtract from itself under what conditions. As hundreds of self-organizing computer models have demonstrated, complex and delightful patterns can evolve from quite
simple sets of rules. The genetic code within the DNA that is the basis of all biological evolution contains just four different letters, combined into words of three letters each.
That pattern, and the rules for replicating and rearranging it, has been constant for something TIS final pgs 159 5/2/09 10:37:42 160 PART THREE: CREATING CHANGE—IN SYSTEMS AND IN
OUR PHILOSOPHY like three billion years, during which it has spewed out an unimaginable variety of failed and successful self-evolved creatures. Self-organization is basically a
matter of an evolutionary raw material—a highly variable stock of information from which to select possible patterns—and a means for experimentation, for selecting and testing new
patterns. For biological evolution, the raw material is DNA, one source of variety is spontaneous mutation, and the testing mechanism is a changing environment in which some
individuals do not survive to reproduce. For technology, the raw material is the body of understanding science has accumulated and stored in libraries and in the brains of its
practitioners. The source of variety is human creativity (whatever that is) and the selection mechanism can be whatever the market will reward, or whatever governments and
foundations will fund, or whatever meets human needs. When you understand the power of system self-organization, you begin to understand why biologists worship biodiversity even
more than economists worship technology. The wildly varied stock of DNA, evolved and accumulated over billions of years, is the source of evolutionary potential, just as science
libraries and labs and universities where scientists are trained are the source of technological potential. Allowing species to go extinct is a systems crime, just as randomly
eliminating all copies of particular science journals or particular kinds of scientists would be. The same could be said of human cultures, of course, which are the store of
behavioral repertoires, accumulated over not billions, but hundreds of thousands of years. They are a stock out of which social evolution can arise. Unfortunately, people
appreciate the precious evolutionary potential of cultures even less than they understand the preciousness of every genetic variation in the world’s ground squirrels. I guess
that’s because one aspect of almost every culture is the belief in the utter superiority of that culture. Insistence on a single culture shuts down learning and cuts back
resilience. Any system, biological, economic, or social, that gets so encrusted that it cannot self-evolve, a system that systematically scorns experimentation and wipes out the
raw material of innovation, is doomed over the long term on this highly variable planet. The intervention point here is obvious, but unpopular. Encouraging variability and
experimentation and diversity means “losing control.” Let a thousand flowers bloom and anything could happen! Who wants that? TIS final pgs 160 5/2/09 10:37:42 CHAPTER SIX:
LEVERAGE POINTS—PLACES TO INTERVENE IN A SYSTEM 161 Let’s play it safe and push this lever in the wrong direction by wiping out biological, cultural, social, and market diversity!
3. Goals—The purpose or function of the system Right there, the diversity-destroying consequence of the push for control demonstrates why the goal of a system is a leverage point
superior to the self-organizing ability of a system. If the goal is to bring more and more of the world under the control of one particular central planning system (the empire of
Genghis Khan, the Church, the People’s Republic of China, Wal-Mart, Disney), then everything further down the list, physical stocks and flows, feedback loops, information flows,
even self-organizing behavior, will be twisted to conform to that goal. That’s why I can’t get into arguments about whether genetic engineering is a “good” or a “bad” thing. Like
all technologies, it depends on who is wielding it, with what goal. The only thing one can say is that if corporations wield it for the purpose of generating marketable products,
that is a very different goal, a very different selection mechanism, a very different direction for evolution than anything the planet has seen so far. As my little single-loop
examples have shown, most balancing feedback loops within systems have their own goals—to keep the bathwater at the right level, to keep the room temperature comfortable, to keep
inventories stocked at sufficient levels, to keep enough water behind the dam. Those goals are important leverage points for pieces of systems, and most people realize that. If you
want the room warmer, you know the thermostat setting is the place to intervene. But there are larger, less obvious, higher-leverage goals, those of the entire system. Even people
within systems don’t often recognize what whole-system goal they are serving. “To make profits,” most corporations would say, but that’s just a rule, a necessary condition to stay
in the game. What is the point of the game? To grow, to increase market share, to bring the world (customers, suppliers, regulators) more and more under the control of the
corporation, so that its operations becomes ever more shielded from uncertainty. John Kenneth Galbraith recognized that corporate goal—to engulf everything—long ago.6 It’s the goal
of a cancer too. Actually it’s the goal of every living population—and only a bad one when it isn’t balanced by higher- TIS final pgs 161 5/2/09 10:37:42 162 PART THREE: CREATING
CHANGE—IN SYSTEMS AND IN OUR PHILOSOPHY level balancing feedback loops that never let an upstart power-loop-driven entity control the world. The goal of keeping the market
competitive has to trump the goal of each individual corporation to eliminate its competitors, just as in ecosystems, the goal of keeping populations in balance and evolving has to
trump the goal of each population to reproduce without limit. I said a while back that changing the players in the system is a low-level intervention, as long as the players fit
into the same old system. The exception to that rule is at the top, where a single player can have the power to change the system’s goal. I have watched in wonder as—only very
occasionally—a new leader in an organization, from Dartmouth College to Nazi Germany, comes in, enunciates a new goal, and swings hundreds or thousands or millions of perfectly
intelligent, rational people off in a new direction. That’s what Ronald Reagan did, and we watched it happen. Not long before he came to office, a president could say “Ask not what
government can do for you, ask what you can do for the government,” and no one even laughed. Reagan said over and over, the goal is not to get the people to help the government and
not to get government to help the people, but to get government off our backs. One can argue, and I would, that larger system changes and the rise of corporate power over
government let him get away with that. But the thoroughness with which the public discourse in the United States and even the world has been changed since Reagan is testimony to
the high leverage of articulating, meaning, repeating, standing up for, insisting upon, new system goals. 2. Paradigms—The mind-set out of which the system—its goals, structure,
rules, delays, parameters—arises Another of Jay Forrester’s famous systems sayings goes: It doesn’t matter how the tax law of a country is written. There is a shared idea in the
minds of the society about what a “fair” distribution of the tax load is. Whatever the laws say, by fair means or foul, by complications, cheating, exemptions or deductions, by
constant sniping at the rules, actual tax payments will push right up against the accepted idea of “fairness.” The shared idea in the minds of society, the great big unstated
assumptions, constitute that society’s paradigm, or deepest set of beliefs about TIS final pgs 162 5/2/09 10:37:42 CHAPTER SIX: LEVERAGE POINTS—PLACES TO INTERVENE IN A SYSTEM 163
how the world works. These beliefs are unstated because it is unnecessary to state them—everyone already knows them. Money measures something real and has real meaning; therefore,
people who are paid less are literally worth less. Growth is good. Nature is a stock of resources to be converted to human purposes. Evolution stopped with the emergence of Homo
sapiens. One can “own” land. Those are just a few of the paradigmatic assumptions of our current culture, all of which have utterly dumbfounded other cultures, who thought them not
the least bit obvious. Paradigms are the sources of systems. From them, from shared social agreements about the nature of reality, come system goals and information flows,
feedbacks, stocks, flows, and everything else about systems. No one has ever said that better than Ralph Waldo Emerson: Every nation and every man instantly surround themselves
with a material apparatus which exactly corresponds to . . . their state of thought. Observe how every truth and every error, each a thought of some man’s mind, clothes itself with
societies, houses, cities, language, ceremonies, newspapers. Observe the ideas of the present day . . . see how timber, brick, lime, and stone have flown into convenient shape,
obedient to the master idea reigning in the minds of many persons. . . . It follows, of course, that the least enlargement of ideas . . . would cause the most striking changes of
external things.7 The ancient Egyptians built pyramids because they believed in an afterlife. We build skyscrapers because we believe that space in downtown cities is enormously
valuable. Whether it was Copernicus and Kepler showing that the earth is not the center of the universe, or Einstein hypothesizing that matter and energy are interchangeable, or
Adam Smith postulating that the selfish actions of individual players in markets wonderfully accumulate to the common good, people who have managed to intervene in systems at the
level of paradigm have hit a leverage point that totally transforms systems. You could say paradigms are harder to change than anything else about a system, and therefore this item
should be lowest on the list, not secondto-highest. But there’s nothing physical or expensive or even slow in the process of paradigm change. In a single individual it can happen
in a TIS final pgs 163 5/2/09 10:37:42 164 PART THREE: CREATING CHANGE—IN SYSTEMS AND IN OUR PHILOSOPHY millisecond. All it takes is a click in the mind, a falling of scales from
the eyes, a new way of seeing. Whole societies are another matter—they resist challenges to their paradigms harder than they resist anything else. So how do you change paradigms?
Thomas Kuhn, who wrote the seminal book about the great paradigm shifts of science, has a lot to say about that.8 You keep pointing at the anomalies and failures in the old
paradigm. You keep speaking and acting, loudly and with assurance, from the new one. You insert people with the new paradigm in places of public visibility and power. You don’t
waste time with reactionaries; rather, you work with active change agents and with the vast middle ground of people who are open-minded. Systems modelers say that we change
paradigms by building a model of the system, which takes us outside the system and forces us to see it whole. I say that because my own paradigms have been changed that way. 1.
Transcending Paradigms There is yet one leverage point that is even higher than changing a paradigm. That is to keep oneself unattached in the arena of paradigms, to stay flexible,
to realize that no paradigm is “true,” that every one, including the one that sweetly shapes your own worldview, is a tremendously limited understanding of an immense and amazing
universe that is far beyond human comprehension. It is to “get” at a gut level the paradigm that there are paradigms, and to see that that itself is a paradigm, and to regard that
whole realization as devastatingly funny. It is to let go into not-knowing, into what the Buddhists call enlightenment. People who cling to paradigms (which means just about all of
us) take one look at the spacious possibility that everything they think is guaranteed to be nonsense and pedal rapidly in the opposite direction. Surely there is no power, no
control, no understanding, not even a reason for being, much less acting, embodied in the notion that there is no certainty in any worldview. But, in fact, everyone who has managed
to entertain that idea, for a moment or for a lifetime, has found it to be the basis for radical empowerment. If no paradigm is right, you can choose whatever one will help to
achieve your purpose. If you have no idea where to get a purpose, you can listen to the universe. TIS final pgs 164 5/2/09 10:37:42 CHAPTER SIX: LEVERAGE POINTS—PLACES TO INTERVENE
IN A SYSTEM 165 It is in this space of mastery over paradigms that people throw off addictions, live in constant joy, bring down empires, get locked up or burned at the stake or
crucified or shot, and have impacts that last for millennia. There is so much that could be said to qualify this list of places to intervene in a system. It is a tentative list and
its order is slithery. There are exceptions to every item that can move it up or down the order of leverage. Having had the list percolating in my subconscious for years has not
transformed me into Superwoman. The higher the leverage point, the more the system will resist changing it—that’s why societies often rub out truly enlightened beings. Magical
leverage points are not easily accessible, even if we know where they are and which direction to push on them. There are no cheap tickets to mastery. You have to work hard at it,
whether that means rigorously analyzing a system or rigorously casting off your own paradigms and throwing yourself into the humility of not-knowing. In the end, it seems that
mastery has less to do with pushing leverage points than it does with strategically, profoundly, madly, letting go and dancing with the system. TIS final pgs 165 5/2/09 10:37:42 —
SEVEN — Living in a World of Systems The real trouble with this world of ours is not that it is an unreasonable world, nor even that it is a reasonable one. The commonest kind of
trouble is that it is nearly reasonable, but not quite. Life is not an illogicality; yet it is a trap for logicians. It looks just a little more mathematical and regular than it
is. —G. K. Chesterton,1 20th century writer People who are raised in the industrial world and who get enthused about systems thinking are likely to make a terrible mistake. They
are likely to assume that here, in systems analysis, in interconnection and complication, in the power of the computer, here at last, is the key to prediction and control. This
mistake is likely because the mind-set of the industrial world assumes that there is a key to prediction and control. I assumed that at first too. We all assumed it, as eager
systems students at the great institution called MIT. More or less innocently, enchanted by what we could see through our new lens, we did what many discoverers do. We exaggerated
our findings. We did so not with any intent to deceive others, but in the expression of our own expectations and hopes. Systems thinking for us was more than subtle, complicated
mind play. It was going to make systems work. Like the explorers searching for the passage to India who ran into the Western Hemisphere instead, we had found something, but it
wasn’t what we thought we had found. It was something so different from what we had been looking for that we didn’t know what to make of it. As we got to know systems thinking
better, it turned out to have greater worth than we had thought, but not in the way we had thought. Our first comeuppance came as we learned that it’s one thing to under- TIS final
pgs 166 5/2/09 10:37:42 CHAPTER SEVEN: LIVING IN A WORLD OF SYSTEMS 167 stand how to fix a system and quite another to wade in and fix it. We had many earnest discussions on the
topic of “implementation,” by which we meant “how to get managers and mayors and agency heads to follow our advice.” The truth was, we didn’t even follow our advice. We gave
learned lectures on the structure of addiction and could not give up coffee. We knew all about the dynamics of eroding goals and eroded our own jogging programs. We warned against
the traps of escalation and shifting the burden and then created them in our own marriages. Social systems are the external manifestations of cultural thinking patterns and of
profound human needs, emotions, strengths, and weaknesses. Changing them is not as simple as saying “now all change,” or of trusting that he who knows the good shall do the good.
We ran into another problem. Our systems insights helped us understand many things we hadn’t understood before, but they didn’t help us understand everything. In fact, they raised
at least as many questions as they answered. Like all the other lenses humanity has developed with which to peer into macrocosms and microcosms, this one too revealed wondrous new
things, many of which were wondrous new mysteries. The mysteries our new tool revealed lay especially within the human mind and heart and soul. Here are just few of the questions
that were prompted by our insights into how systems work. A systems insight . . . can raise more questions! Systems thinkers are by no means the first or only people to ask
questions like these. When we started asking them, we found whole disciplines, libraries, histories, asking the same questions, and to some extent offering answers. What was unique
about our search was not our answers, or even our questions, but the fact that the tool of systems thinking, born out of engineering and mathematics, implemented in computers,
drawn from a mechanistic mind-set and a quest for prediction and control, leads its practitioners, inexorably I believe, to confront the most deeply human mysteries. Systems
thinking makes clear even to the most committed technocrat that getting along in this world of complex systems requires more than technocracy. Self-organizing, nonlinear, feedback
systems are inherently unpredictable. They are not controllable. They are understandable only in the most general way. The goal of foreseeing the future exactly and preparing for
it TIS final pgs 167 5/2/09 10:37:42 168 PART THREE: CREATING CHANGE—IN SYSTEMS AND IN OUR PHILOSOPHY A new information feedback loop at this point in this system will make it
behave much better. But the decision makers are resistant to the information they need! They don’t pay attention to it, they don’t believe it, they don’t know how to interpret it.
If this feedback loop could just be oriented around that value, the system would produce a result that everyone wants. (Not more energy, but more energy services. Not GNP, but
material sufficiency and security. Not growth, but progress.) We don’t have to change anyone’s values, we just have to get the system to operate around real values. Here is a
system that seems perverse on all counts. It produces inefficiency, ugliness, environmental degradation, and human misery. But if we sweep it away, we will have no system. Nothing
is more frightening than that. (As I write, I have the former communist system of the Soviet Union in mind, but that is not the only possible example.) The people in this system
are putting up with deleterious behavior because they are afraid of change. They don’t trust that a better system is possible. They feel they have no power to demand or bring about
improvement. perfectly is unrealizable. The idea of making a complex system do just what you want it to do can be achieved only temporarily, at best. We can never fully understand
our world, not in the way our reductionist science has led us to expect. Our science itself, from quantum theory to the mathematics of chaos, leads us into irreducible uncertainty.
For any objective other than the most trivial, we can’t optimize; we don’t even know what to optimize. We can’t keep track of everything. We can’t find a proper, sustainable
relationship to nature, each other, or the institutions we create, if we try to do it from the role of omniscient conqueror. For those who stake their identity on the role of
omniscient conqueror, TIS final pgs 168 5/2/09 10:37:42 CHAPTER SEVEN: LIVING IN A WORLD OF SYSTEMS 169 Why do people actively sort and screen information the way they do? How do
they determine what to let in and what to let bounce off, what to reckon with and what to ignore or disparage? How is it that, exposed to the same information, different people
absorb different messages, and draw different conclusions? What are values? Where do they come from? Are they universal, or culturally determined? What causes a person or a society
to give up on attaining “real values” and to settle for cheap substitutes? How can you key a feedback loop to qualities you can’t measure, rather than to quantities you can? Why is
it that periods of minimum structure and maximum freedom to create are so frightening? How is it that one way of seeing the world becomes so widely shared that institutions,
technologies, production systems, buildings, cities, become shaped around that way of seeing? How do systems create cultures? How do cultures create systems? Once a culture and
system have been found lacking, do they have to change through breakdown and chaos? Why are people so easily convinced of their powerlessness? How do they become so cynical about
their ability to achieve their visions? Why are they more likely to listen to people who tell them they can’t make changes than they are to people who tell them they can? the
uncertainty exposed by systems thinking is hard to take. If you can’t understand, predict, and control, what is there to do? Systems thinking leads to another conclusion, however,
waiting, shining, obvious, as soon as we stop being blinded by the illusion of control. It says that there is plenty to do, of a different sort of “doing.” The future can’t be
predicted, but it can be envisioned and brought lovingly into being. Systems can’t be controlled, but they can be designed and redesigned. We can’t surge forward with certainty
into a world of no surprises, but we can expect surprises and learn from them and even profit from them. We can’t impose our will on a system. We can listen to what the system
tells TIS final pgs 169 5/2/09 10:37:42 170 PART THREE: CREATING CHANGE—IN SYSTEMS AND IN OUR PHILOSOPHY us, and discover how its properties and our values can work together to
bring forth something much better than could ever be produced by our will alone. We can’t control systems or figure them out. But we can dance with them! I already knew that, in a
way. I had learned about dancing with great powers from whitewater kayaking, from gardening, from playing music, from skiing. All those endeavors require one to stay wide awake,
pay close attention, participate flat out, and respond to feedback. It had never occurred to me that those same requirements might apply to intellectual work, to management, to
government, to getting along with people. But there it was, the message emerging from every computer model we made. Living successfully in a world of systems requires more of us
than our ability to calculate. It requires our full humanity—our rationality, our ability to sort out truth from falsehood, our intuition, our compassion, our vision, and our
morality.2 I want to end this chapter and this book by trying to summarize the most general “systems wisdoms” I have absorbed from modeling complex systems and from hanging out
with modelers. These are the take-home lessons, the concepts and practices that penetrate the discipline of systems so deeply that one begins, however imperfectly, to practice them
not just in one’s profession, but in all of life. They are the behaviorial consequences of a worldview based on the ideas of feedback, nonlinearity, and systems responsible for
their own behavior. When that engineering professor at Dartmouth noticed that we systems folks were “different” and wondered why, these, I think, were the differences he noticed.
The list probably isn’t complete, because I am still a student in the school of systems. And it isn’t a list that is unique to systems thinking; there are many ways to learn to
dance. But here, as a start-off dancing lesson, are the practices I see my colleagues adopting, consciously or unconsciously, as they encounter new systems. Get the Beat of the
System Before you disturb the system in any way, watch how it behaves. If it’s a piece of music or a whitewater rapid or a fluctuation in a commodity price, study its beat. If it’s
a social system, watch it work. Learn its history. Ask TIS final pgs 170 5/2/09 10:37:42 CHAPTER SEVEN: LIVING IN A WORLD OF SYSTEMS 171 people who’ve been around a long time to
tell you what has happened. If possible, find or make a time graph of actual data from the system— peoples’ memories are not always reliable when it comes to timing. This guideline
is deceptively simple. Until you make it a practice, you won’t believe how many wrong turns it helps you avoid. Starting with the behavior of the system forces you to focus on
facts, not theories. It keeps you from falling too quickly into your own beliefs or misconceptions, or those of others. It’s amazing how many misconceptions there can be. People
will swear that rainfall is decreasing, say, but when you look at the data, you find that what is really happening is that variability is increasing—the droughts are deeper, but
the floods are greater too. I have been told with great authority that the price of milk was going up when it was going down, that real interest rates were falling when they were
rising, that the deficit was a higher fraction of the GNP than ever before when it wasn’t. It’s especially interesting to watch how the various elements in the system do or do not
vary together. Watching what really happens, instead of listening to peoples’ theories of what happens, can explode many careless causal hypotheses. Every selectman in the state of
New Hampshire seems to be positive that growth in a town will lower taxes, but if you plot growth rates against tax rates, you find a scatter as random as the stars in a New
Hampshire winter sky. There is no discernible relationship at all. Starting with the behavior of the system directs one’s thoughts to dynamic, not static, analysis—not only to
“What’s wrong?” but also to “How did we get there?” “What other behavior modes are possible?” “If we don’t change direction, where are we going to end up?” And looking to the
strengths of the system, one can ask “What’s working well here?” Starting with the history of several variables plotted together begins to suggest not only what elements are in the
system, but how they might be interconnected. And finally, starting with history discourages the common and distracting tendency we all have to define a problem not by the system’s
actual behavior, but by the lack of our favorite solution. (The problem is, we need to find more oil. The problem is, we need to ban abortion. The problem is, we don’t have enough
salesmen. The problem is, how can we attract more growth to this town?) Listen to any discussion, in your family or a committee meeting at work or among the pundits in the media,
and watch people leap to solutions, usually solutions in “predict, control, or impose TIS final pgs 171 5/2/09 10:37:42 172 PART THREE: CREATING CHANGE—IN SYSTEMS AND IN OUR
PHILOSOPHY your will” mode, without having paid any attention to what the system is doing and why it’s doing it. Expose Your Mental Models to the Light of Day When we draw
structural diagrams and then write equations, we are forced to make our assumptions visible and to express them with rigor. We have to put every one of our assumptions about the
system out where others (and we ourselves) can see them. Our models have to be complete, and they have to add up, and they have to be consistent. Our assumptions can no longer
slide around (mental models are very slippery), assuming one thing for purposes of one discussion and something else contradictory for purposes of the next discussion. You don’t
have to put forth your mental model with diagrams and equations, although doing so is a good practice. You can do it with words or lists or pictures or arrows showing what you
think is connected to what. The more you do that, in any form, the clearer your thinking will become, the faster you will admit your uncertainties and correct your mistakes, and
the more flexible you will learn to be. Mental flexibility—the willingness to redraw boundaries, to notice that a system has shifted into a new mode, to see how to redesign
structure—is a necessity when you live in a world of flexible systems. Remember, always, that everything you know, and everything everyone knows, is only a model. Get your model
out there where it can be viewed. Invite others to challenge your assumptions and add their own. Instead of becoming a champion for one possible explanation or hypothesis or model,
collect as many as possible. Consider all of them to be plausible until you find some evidence that causes you to rule one out. That way you will be emotionally able to see the
evidence that rules out an assumption that may become entangled with your own identity. Getting models out into the light of day, making them as rigorous as possible, testing them
against the evidence, and being willing to scuttle them if they are no longer supported is nothing more than practicing the scientific method—something that is done too seldom even
in science, and is done hardly at all in social science or management or government or everyday life. TIS final pgs 172 5/2/09 10:37:42 CHAPTER SEVEN: LIVING IN A WORLD OF SYSTEMS
173 Honor, Respect, and Distribute Information You’ve seen how information holds systems together and how delayed, biased, scattered, or missing information can make feedback loops
malfunction. Decision makers can’t respond to information they don’t have, can’t respond accurately to information that is inaccurate, and can’t respond in a timely way to
information that is late. I would guess that most of what goes wrong in systems goes wrong because of biased, late, or missing information. If I could, I would add an eleventh
commandment to the first ten: Thou shalt not distort, delay, or withhold information. You can drive a system crazy by muddying its information streams. You can make a system work
better with surprising ease if you can give it more timely, more accurate, more complete information. For example, in 1986, new federal legislation, the Toxic Release Inventory,
required U.S. companies to report all hazardous air pollutants emitted from each of their factories each year. Through the Freedom of Information Act (from a systems point of view,
one of the most important laws in the nation), that information became a matter of public record. In July 1988, the first data on chemical emissions became available. The reported
emissions were not illegal, but they didn’t look very good when they were published in local papers by enterprising reporters, who had a tendency to make lists of “the top ten
local polluters.” That’s all that happened. There were no lawsuits, no required reductions, no fines, no penalties. But within two years chemical emissions nationwide (at least as
reported, and presumably also in fact) had decreased by 40 percent. Some companies were launching policies to bring their emissions down by 90 percent, just because of the release
of previously withheld information.3 Information is power. Anyone interested in power grasps that idea very quickly. The media, the public relations people, the politicians, and
advertisers who regulate much of the public flow of information have far more power than most people realize. They filter and channel information. Often they do so for short-term,
self-interested purposes. It’s no wonder our that social systems so often run amok. TIS final pgs 173 5/2/09 10:37:42 174 PART THREE: CREATING CHANGE—IN SYSTEMS AND IN OUR
PHILOSOPHY Use Language with Care and Enrich It with Systems Concepts Our information streams are composed primarily of language. Our mental models are mostly verbal. Honoring
information means above all avoiding language pollution—making the cleanest possible use we can of language. Second, it means expanding our language so we can talk about
complexity. Fred Kofman wrote in a systems journal: [Language] can serve as a medium through which we create new understandings and new realities as we begin to talk about them. In
fact, we don’t talk about what we see; we see only what we can talk about. Our perspectives on the world depend on the interaction of our nervous system and our language—both act
as filters through which we perceive our world. . . . The language and information systems of an organization are not an objective means of describing an outside reality—they
fundamentally structure the perceptions and actions of its members. To reshape the measurement and communication systems of a [society] is to reshape all potential interactions at
the most fundamental level. Language . . . as articulation of reality is more primordial than strategy, structure, or . . . culture.4 A society that talks incessantly about
“productivity” but that hardly understands, much less uses, the word “resilience” is going to become productive and not resilient. A society that doesn’t understand or use the term
“carrying capacity” will exceed its carrying capacity. A society that talks about “creating jobs” as if that’s something only companies can do will not inspire the great majority
of its people to create jobs, for themselves or anyone else. Nor will it appreciate its workers for their role in “creating profits.” And of course a society that talks about a
“Peacekeeper” missile or “collateral damage,” a “Final Solution” or “ethnic cleansing,” is speaking what Wendell Berry calls “tyrannese.” My impression is that we have seen, for
perhaps a hundred and fifty years, a gradual increase in language that is either meaningless or destructive of meaning. And I believe that this increasing TIS final pgs 174 5/2/09
10:37:42 CHAPTER SEVEN: LIVING IN A WORLD OF SYSTEMS 175 unreliability of language parallels the increasing disintegration, over the same period, of persons and communities. . . .
He goes on to say: In this degenerative accounting, language is almost without the power of designation, because it is used conscientiously to refer to nothing in particular.
Attention rests upon percentages, categories, abstract functions. . . . It is not language that the user will very likely be required to stand by or to act on, for it does not
define any personal ground for standing or acting. Its only practical utility is to support with “expert opinion” a vast, impersonal technological action already begun. . . . It is
a tyrannical language: tyrannese.5 The first step in respecting language is keeping it as concrete, meaningful, and truthful as possible—part of the job of keeping information
streams clear. The second step is to enlarge language to make it consistent with our enlarged understanding of systems. If the Eskimos have so many words for snow, it’s because
they have studied and learned how to use snow. They have turned snow into a resource, a system with which they can dance. The industrial society is just beginning to have and use
words for systems, because it is only beginning to pay attention to and use complexity. Carrying capacity, structure, diversity, and even system are old words that are coming to
have richer and more precise meanings. New words are having to be invented. My word processor has spell-check capability, which lets me add words that didn’t originally come in its
comprehensive dictionary. It’s interesting to see what words I had to add when writing this book: feedback, throughput, overshoot, self-organization, sustainability. Pay Attention
to What Is Important, Not Just What Is Quantiﬁable Our culture, obsessed with numbers, has given us the idea that what we can measure is more important than what we can’t measure.
Think about that TIS final pgs 175 5/2/09 10:37:42 176 PART THREE: CREATING CHANGE—IN SYSTEMS AND IN OUR PHILOSOPHY for a minute. It means that we make quantity more important than
quality. If quantity forms the goals of our feedback loops, if quantity is the center of our attention and language and institutions, if we motivate ourselves, rate ourselves, and
reward ourselves on our ability to produce quantity, then quantity will be the result. You can look around and make up your own mind about whether quantity or quality is the
outstanding characteristic of the world in which you live. As modelers we have exposed ourselves to the ridicule of our scientific colleagues more than once by putting variables
labeled “prejudice,” or “self-esteem,” or “quality of life” into our models. Since computers require numbers, we have had to make up quantitative scales by which to measure these
qualitative concepts. “Let’s say prejudice is measured from –10 to +10, where 0 means you are treated with no bias at all, –10 means extreme negative prejudice, and +10 means such
positive prejudice that you can do no wrong. Now, suppose that you were treated with a prejudice of –2, or +5, or –8. What would that do to your performance at work?” The
relationship between prejudice and performance actually had to be put in a model once.6 The study was for a firm that wanted to know how to do better at treating minority workers
and how to move them up the corporate ladder. Everyone interviewed agreed that there certainly was a real connection between prejudice and performance. It was arbitrary what kind
of scale to measure it by—it could have been 1 to 5 or 0 to 100—but it would have been much more unscientific to leave “prejudice” out of that study than to try to include it. When
the workers in the company were asked to draw the relationship between their performance and prejudice, they came up with one of the most nonlinear relationships I’ve ever seen in
a model. Pretending that something doesn’t exist if it’s hard to quantify leads to faulty models. You’ve already seen the system trap that comes from setting goals around what is
easily measured, rather than around what is important. So don’t fall into that trap. Human beings have been endowed not only with the ability to count, but also with the ability to
assess quality. Be a quality detector. Be a walking, noisy Geiger counter that registers the presence or absence of quality. If something is ugly, say so. If it is tacky,
