Therefore, many systems are not meeting our goals because of malfunctioning hierarchies. If a team member is more interested in personal glory than in the team winning, he or she
can cause the team to lose. If a body cell breaks free from its hierarchical function and starts multiplying wildly, we call it a cancer. If students think their purpose is to
maximize personal grades instead of TIS final pgs 84 5/2/09 10:37:39 CHAPTER THREE: WHY SYSTEMS WORK SO WELL 85 seeking knowledge, cheating and other counterproductive behaviors
break out. If a single corporation bribes the government to favor that corporation, the advantages of the competitive market and the good of the whole society are eroded. When a
subsystem’s goals dominate at the expense of the total system’s goals, the resulting behavior is called suboptimization. Just as damaging as suboptimization, of course, is the
problem of too much central control. If the brain controlled each cell so tightly that the cell could not perform its self-maintenance functions, the whole organism could die. If
central rules and regulations prevent students or faculty from exploring fields of knowledge freely, the purpose of the university is not served. The coach of a team might
interfere with the on-the-spot perceptions of a good player, to the detriment of the team. Economic examples of overcontrol from the top, from companies to nations, are the causes
of some of the great catastrophes of history, all of which are by no means behind us. To be a highly functional system, hierarchy must balance the welfare, freedoms, and
responsibilities of the subsystems and total system—there must be enough central control to achieve coordination toward the largesystem goal, and enough autonomy to keep all
subsystems flourishing, functioning, and self-organizing. Resilience, self-organization, and hierar- Hierarchical systems evolve chy are three of the reasons dynamic systems from
the bottom up. The can work so well. Promoting or managing for purpose of the upper layers these properties of a system can improve its of the hierarchy is to serve ability to
function well over the long term— the purposes of the lower to be sustainable. But watching how systems layers. behave also can be full of surprises. TIS final pgs 85 5/2/09
10:37:39 — FOUR — Why Systems Surprise Us The trouble . . . is that we are terrifyingly ignorant. The most learned of us are ignorant. . . . The acquisition of knowledge always
involves the revelation of ignorance—almost is the revelation of ignorance. Our knowledge of the world instructs us first of all that the world is greater than our knowledge of it.
—Wendell Berry,1 writer and Kentucky farmer The simple systems in the zoo may have perplexed you with their behavior. They continue to surprise me, although I have been teaching
them for years. That you and I are surprised says as much about us as it does about dynamic systems. The interactions between what I think I know about dynamic systems and my
experience of the real world never fails to be humbling. They keep reminding me of three truths: 1. Everything we think we know about the world is a model. Every word and every
language is a model. All maps and statistics, books and databases, equations and computer programs are models. So are the ways I picture the world in my head—my mental models. None
of these is or ever will be the real world. 2. Our models usually have a strong congruence with the world. That is why we are such a successful species in the biosphere. Especially
complex and sophisticated are the mental models we develop from direct, intimate experience of nature, people, and organizations immediately around us. 3. However, and conversely,
our models fall far short of representing the world fully. That is why we make mistakes and why we are regularly surprised. In our heads, we can keep track of only a few variables
at TIS final pgs 86 5/2/09 10:37:39 CHAPTER FOUR: WHY SYSTEMS SURPRISE US 87 one time. We often draw illogical conclusions from accurate assumptions, or logical conclusions from
inaccurate assumptions. Most of us, for instance, are surprised by the amount of growth an exponential process can generate. Few of us can intuit how to damp oscillations in a
complex system. In short, this book is poised on a duality. Everything we think we We know a tremendous amount about how know about the world is the world works, but not nearly
enough. Our a model. Our models do knowledge is amazing; our ignorance even more have a strong congruence so. We can improve our understanding, but we with the world. Our models
can’t make it perfect. I believe both sides of this fall far short of representduality, because I have learned much from the ing the real world fully. study of systems. This
chapter describes some of the reasons why dynamic systems are so often surprising. Alternately, it is a compilation of some of the ways our mental models fail to take into account
the complications of the real world—at least those ways that one can see from a systems perspective. It is a warning list. Here is where hidden snags lie. You can’t navigate well
in an interconnected, feedback-dominated world unless you take your eyes off short-term events and look for long-term behavior and structure; unless you are aware of false
boundaries and bounded rationality; unless you take into account limiting factors, nonlinearities and delays. You are likely to mistreat, misdesign, or misread systems if you don’t
respect their properties of resilience, self-organization, and hierarchy. The bad news, or the good news, depending on your need to control the world and your willingness to be
delighted by its surprises, is that even if you do understand all these system characteristics, you may be surprised less often, but you will still be surprised. Beguiling Events A
system is a big black box Of which we can’t unlock the locks, And all we can find out about Is what goes in and what comes out. TIS final pgs 87 5/2/09 10:37:39 88 PART TWO:
SYSTEMS AND US Perceiving input-output pairs, Related by parameters, Permits us, sometimes, to relate An input, output and a state. If this relation’s good and stable Then to
predict we may be able, But if this fails us—heaven forbid! We’ll be compelled to force the lid! —Kenneth Boulding,2 economist Systems fool us by presenting themselves—or we fool
ourselves by seeing the world—as a series of events. The daily news tells of elections, battles, political agreements, disasters, stock market booms or busts. Much of our ordinary
conversation is about specific happenings at specific times and places. A team wins. A river floods. The Dow Jones Industrial Average hits 10,000. Oil is discovered. A forest is
cut. Events are the outputs, moment by moment, from the black box of the system. Events can be spectacular: crashes, assassinations, great victories, terrible tragedies. They hook
our emotions. Although we’ve seen many thousands of them on our TV screens or the front page of the paper, each one is different enough from the last to keep us fascinated (just as
we never lose our fascination with the chaotic twists and turns of the weather). It’s endlessly engrossing to take in the world as a series of events, and constantly surprising,
because that way of seeing the world has almost no predictive or explanatory value. Like the tip of an iceberg rising above the water, events are the most visible aspect of a
larger complex—but not always the most important. We are less likely to be surprised if we can see how events accumulate into dynamic patterns of behavior. The team is on a winning
streak. The variance of the river is increasing, with higher floodwaters during rains and lower flows during droughts. The Dow has been trending up for two years. Discoveries of
oil are becoming less frequent. The felling of forests is happening at an ever-increasing rate. The behavior of a system is its performance over time—its growth, stagnation,
decline, oscillation, randomness, or evolution. If the news did a better job of putting events into historical context, we would have better behavior-level understanding, which is
deeper than event-level under- TIS final pgs 88 5/2/09 10:37:39 CHAPTER FOUR: WHY SYSTEMS SURPRISE US 89 standing. When a systems thinker encounters a problem, the first thing he
or she does is look for data, time graphs, the history of the system. That’s because long-term behavior provides clues to the underlying system structure. And structure is the key
to understanding not just what is happening, but why. The structure of a system is its interlocking stocks, flows, and feedback loops. The diagrams with boxes and arrows (my
students call them “spaghetti-and-meatball diagrams”) are pictures of system structure. Structure determines what behaviors are latent in the system. A goal-seeking balancing
feedback System structure is the loop approaches or holds a dynamic equilibrium. source of system behavior. A reinforcing feedback loop generates exponen- System behavior reveals
tial growth. The two of them linked together are itself as a series of events over time. capable of growth, decay, or equilibrium. If they also contain delays, they may produce
oscillations. If they work in periodic, rapid bursts, they may produce even more surprising behaviors. Systems thinking goes back and forth constantly between structure (diagrams
of stocks, flows, and feedback) and behavior (time graphs). Systems thinkers strive to understand the connections between the hand releasing the Slinky (event) and the resulting
oscillations (behavior) and the mechanical characteristics of the Slinky’s helical coil (structure). Simple examples like a Slinky make this event-behavior-structure distinction
seem obvious. In fact, much analysis in the world goes no deeper than events. Listen to every night’s explanation of why the stock market did what it did. Stocks went up (down)
because the U.S. dollar fell (rose), or the prime interest rate rose (fell), or the Democrats won (lost), or one country invaded another (or didn’t). Event-event analysis. These
explanations give you no ability to predict what will happen tomorrow. They give you no ability to change the behavior of the system— to make the stock market less volatile or a
more reliable indicator of the health of corporations or a better vehicle to encourage investment, for instance. Most economic analysis goes one level deeper, to behavior over
time. Econometric models strive to find the statistical links among past trends in income, savings, investment, government spending, interest rates, output, or whatever, often in
complicated equations. TIS final pgs 89 5/2/09 10:37:39 90 PART TWO: SYSTEMS AND US These behavior-based models are more useful than event-based ones, but they still have
fundamental problems. First, they typically overemphasize system flows and underemphasize stocks. Economists follow the behavior of flows, because that’s where the interesting
variations and most rapid changes in systems show up. Economic news reports on the national production (flow) of goods and services, the GNP, rather than the total physical capital
(stock) of the nation’s factories and farms and businesses that produce those goods and services. But without seeing how stocks affect their related flows through feedback
processes, one cannot understand the dynamics of economic systems or the reasons for their behavior. Second, and more seriously, in trying to find statistical links that relate
flows to each other, econometricians are searching for something that does not exist. There’s no reason to expect any flow to bear a stable relationship to any other flow. Flows go
up and down, on and off, in all sorts of combinations, in response to stocks, not to other flows. Let me use a simple example to explain what I mean. Suppose you knew nothing at
all about thermostats, but you had a lot of data about past heat flows into and out of the room. You could find an equation telling you how those flows have varied together in the
past, because under ordinary circumstances, being governed by the same stock (temperature of the room), they do vary together. Your equation would hold, however, only until
something changes in the system’s structure—someone opens a window or improves the insulation, or tunes the furnace, or forgets to order oil. You could predict tomorrow’s room
temperature with your equation, as long as the system didn’t change or break down. But if you were asked to make the room warmer, or if the room temperature suddenly started
plummeting and you had to fix it, or if you wanted to produce the same room temperature with a lower fuel bill, your behavior-level analysis wouldn’t help you. You would have to
dig into the system’s structure. That’s why behavior-based econometric models are pretty good at predicting the near-term performance of the economy, quite bad at predicting the
longer-term performance, and terrible at telling one how to improve the performance of the economy. And that’s one reason why systems of all kinds surprise us. We are too
fascinated by the events they generate. We pay too little attention to their TIS final pgs 90 5/2/09 10:37:39 CHAPTER FOUR: WHY SYSTEMS SURPRISE US 91 history. And we are
insufficiently skilled at seeing in their history clues to the structures from which behavior and events flow. Linear Minds in a Nonlinear World Linear relationships are easy to
think about: the more the merrier. Linear equations are solvable, which makes them suitable for textbooks. Linear systems have an important modular virtue: you can take them apart
and put them together again— the pieces add up. Nonlinear systems generally cannot be solved and cannot be added together. . . . Nonlinearity means that the act of playing the game
has a way of changing the rules. . . . That twisted changeability makes nonlinearity hard to calculate, but it also creates rich kinds of behavior that never occur in linear
systems. —James Gleick, author of Chaos: Making a New Science 3 We often are not very skilled in understanding the nature of relationships. A linear relationship between two
elements in a system can be drawn on a graph with a straight line. It’s a relationship with constant proportions. If I put 10 pounds of fertilizer on my field, my yield will go up
by 2 bushels. If I put on 20 pounds, my yield will go up by 4 bushels. If I put on 30 pounds, I’ll get an increase of 6 bushels. A nonlinear relationship is one in which the cause
does not produce a proportional effect. The relationship between cause and effect can only be drawn with curves or wiggles, not with a straight line. If I put 100 pounds of
fertilizer on, my yield will go up by 10 bushels; if I put on 200, my yield will not go up at all; if I put on 300, my yield will go down. Why? I’ve damaged my soil with “too much
of a good thing.” The world is full of nonlinearities. So the world often surprises our linear-thinking minds. If we’ve learned that a small push produces a small response, we
think that twice as big a push will produce twice as big a response. But in a nonlinear system, twice the push could produce one-sixth the response, or the response squared, or no
response at all. Here are some examples of nonlinearities: TIS final pgs 91 5/2/09 10:37:39 92 PART TWO: SYSTEMS AND US • As the flow of traffic on a highway increases, car speed
is affected only slightly over a large range of car density. Eventually, however, small further increases in density produce a rapid drop-off in speed. And when the number of cars
on the highway builds up to a certain point, it can result in a traffic jam, and car speed drops to zero. • Soil erosion can proceed for a long time without much affect on crop
yield—until the topsoil is worn down to the depth of the root zone of the crop. Beyond that point, a little further erosion can cause yields to plummet. • A little tasteful
advertising can awaken interest in a product. A lot of blatant advertising can cause disgust for the product. You can see why nonlinearities produce surprises. They foil the
reasonable expectation that if a little of some cure did a little good, then a lot of it will do a lot of good—or alternately that if a little destructive action caused only a
tolerable amount of harm, then more of that same kind of destruction will cause only a bit more harm. Reasonable expectations like these in a nonlinear world produce classic
mistakes. Nonlinearities are important not only because they confound our expectations about the relationship between action and response. They are even more important because they
change the relative strengths of feedback loops. They can flip a system from one mode of behavior to another. Nonlinearities are the chief cause of the shifting dominance that
characterizes several of the systems in the zoo—the sudden swing between exponential growth caused by a dominant reinforcing loop, say, and then decline caused by a suddenly
dominant balancing loop. To take a dramatic example of the effects of nonlinearities, consider the destructive irruptions of the spruce budworm in North American forests. INTERLUDE
• Spruce Budworms, Firs, and Pesticides Tree ring records show that the spruce budworm has been killing spruce and fir trees periodically in North America for at least 400 years.
Until this century, no one much cared. The valuable tree for the lumber industry was the white pine. Spruce and fir were considered “weed species.” Eventually, TIS final pgs 92
5/2/09 10:37:39 CHAPTER FOUR: WHY SYSTEMS SURPRISE US 93 however, the stands of virgin pine were gone, and the lumber industry turned to spruce and fir. Suddenly the budworm was
seen as a serious pest. So, beginning in the 1950s, northern forests were sprayed with DDT to control the spruce budworm. In spite of the spraying, every year there was a budworm
resurgence. Annual sprays were continued through the 1950s, 1960s, and 1970s, until DDT was banned. Then the sprays were changed to fenitrothion, acephate, Sevin, and methoxychlor.
Insecticides were no longer thought to be the ultimate answer to the budworm problem, but they were still seen as essential. “Insecticides buy time,” said one forester, “That’s all
the forest manager wants; to preserve the trees until the mill is ready for them.” By 1980, spraying costs were getting unmanageable—the Canadian province of New Brunswick spent
$12.5 million on budworm “control” that year. Concerned citizens were objecting to the drenching of the landscape with poisons. And, in spite of the sprays, the budworm was still
killing as many as 20 million hectares (50 million acres) of trees per year. C. S. Holling of the University of British Columbia and Gordon Baskerville of the University of New
Brunswick put together a computer model to get a whole-system look at the budworm problem. They discovered that before the spraying began, the budworm had been barely detectable in
most years. It was controlled by a number of predators, including birds, a spider, a parasitic wasp, and several diseases. Every few decades, however, there was a budworm outbreak,
lasting from six to ten years. Then the budworm population would subside, eventually to explode again The budworm preferentially attacks balsam fir, secondarily spruce. Balsam fir
is the most competitive tree in the northern forest. Left to its own devices, it would crowd out spruce and birch, and the forest would become a monoculture of nothing but fir.
Each budworm outbreak cuts back the fir population, opening the forest for spruce and birch. Eventually fir moves back in. As the fir population builds up, the probability of an
outbreak increases— nonlinearly. The reproductive potential of the budworm increases more than proportionately to the availability of its favorite food supply. The final trigger is
two or three warm, dry springs, perfect for the survival of budworm larvae. (If you’re doing event-level analysis, you will blame the outburst on the warm, dry springs.) TIS final
pgs 93 5/2/09 10:37:39 94 PART TWO: SYSTEMS AND US The budworm population grows too great for its natural enemies to hold in check—nonlinearly. Over a wide range of conditions,
greater budworm populations result in more rapid multiplication of budworm predators. But beyond some point, the predators can multiply no faster. What was a reinforcing
relationship—more budworms, faster predator multiplication—becomes a nonrelationship—more budworms, no faster predator multiplication—and the budworms take off, unimpeded. Now only
one thing can stop the outbreak: the insect reducing its own food supply by killing off fir trees. When that finally happens, the budworm population crashes—nonlinearly. The
reinforcing loop of budworm reproduction yields dominance to the balancing loop of budworm starvation. Spruce and birch move into the spaces where the firs used to be, and the
cycle begins again. The budworm/spruce/fir system oscillates over decades, but it is ecologically stable within bounds. It can go on forever. The main effect of the budworm is to
allow tree species other than fir to persist. But in this case what is ecologically stable is economically unstable. In eastern Canada, the economy is almost completely dependent
on Many relationships in systems the logging industry, which is dependent on a are nonlinear. Their relative steady supply of fir and spruce. strengths shift in disproportionWhen
industry sprays insecticides, it shifts ate amounts as the stocks in the whole system to balance uneasily on the system shift. Nonlinearities different points within its nonlinear
relationin feedback systems produce shifting dominance of loops and ships. It kills off not only the pest, but the many complexities in system natural enemies of the pest, thereby
weakening the feedback loop that normally keeps the behavior. budworms in check. It keeps the density of fir high, moving the budworms up their nonlinear reproduction curve to the
point at which they’re perpetually on the edge of population explosion. The forest management practices have set up what Holling calls “persistent semi-outbreak conditions” over
larger and larger areas. The managers have found themselves locked into a policy in which there is an incipient volcano bubbling, such that, if the policy fails, there will be an
outbreak of an intensity that has never been seen before.”4 TIS final pgs 94 5/2/09 10:37:39 CHAPTER FOUR: WHY SYSTEMS SURPRISE US 95 Nonexistent Boundaries When we think in terms
of systems, we see that a fundamental misconception is embedded in the popular term “side-effects.”. . . This phrase means roughly “effects which I hadn’t foreseen or don’t want to
think about.”. . . Side-effects no more deserve the adjective “side” than does the “principal” effect. It is hard to think in terms of systems, and we eagerly warp our language to
protect ourselves from the necessity of doing so. —Garrett Hardin,5 ecologist Remember the clouds in the structural diagrams of Chapters One and Two? Beware of clouds! They are
prime sources of system surprises. Clouds stand for the beginnings and ends of flows. They are stocks— sources and sinks—that are being ignored at the moment for the purposes of
simplifying the present discussion. They mark the boundary of the system diagram. They rarely mark a real boundary, because systems rarely have real boundaries. Everything, as they
say, is connected to everything else, and not neatly. There is no clearly determinable boundary between the sea and the land, between sociology and anthropology, between an
automobile’s exhaust and your nose. There are only boundaries of word, thought, perception, and social agreement—artificial, mental-model boundaries. The greatest complexities
arise exactly at boundaries. There are Czechs on the German side of the border and Germans on the Czech side of the border. Forest species extend beyond the edge of the forest into
the field; field species penetrate partway into the forest. Disorderly, mixed-up borders are sources of diversity and creativity. In our system zoo, for instance, I showed the flow
of cars into a car dealer’s inventory as coming from a cloud. Of course, cars don’t come from a cloud, they come from the transformation of a stock of raw materials, with the help
of capital, labor, energy, technology, and management (the means of production). Similarly, the flow of cars out of the inventory goes not to a cloud, but through sales to the
households or businesses of consumers. Whether it is important to keep track of raw materials or consumers’ home stocks (whether it is legitimate to replace them in a diagram with
clouds) depends on whether these stocks are likely to have a significant influence on TIS final pgs 95 5/2/09 10:37:39 96 PART TWO: SYSTEMS AND US raw materials raw materials
processing inventory production sales consumers’ home stocks depreciation or discard Figure 47. Revealing some of the stocks behind the clouds. the behavior of the system over the
time period of interest. If raw materials are guaranteed to be abundant and consumers continue to demand the products, then clouds will do. But if there could be a materials
shortage or a product glut, and if we drew a mental boundary around the system that did not include these stocks, then we could be surprised by future events. There are still
clouds in Figure 47. The boundary can be expanded further. Processed raw materials come from chemical plants, smelters, or refineries, whose input comes, ultimately, from the
earth. Processing creates not only products, but also employment, wages, profits, and pollution. Discarded consumers’ stocks go to landfills or incinerators or recycling centers,
from which they go on to have further effects on society and the environment. Landfills leach into drinking-water wells, incinerators produce smoke and ash, recycling centers move
materials back into the production stream. Whether it’s important to think about the full flow from mine to dump, or as industry calls it, “from cradle to grave,” depends on who
wants to know, for what purpose, over how long. In the long term, the full flow is important and, as the physical economy grows and society’s “ecological footprint” expands, the
long term is increasingly coming to be the short term. Landfills fill up with a suddenness that has been surprising for people whose mental models picture garbage as going “away,”
into some sort of a cloud. Sources of raw materials—mines, wells, and oil fields—can be exhausted with surprising suddenness too. With a long enough time horizon, even mines and
dumps are not the end of the story. The great geological cycles of the earth keep moving materials around, opening and closing seas, raising up and wearing down mountains. Eons
from now, everything put in a dump will end up on the top of a mountain or deep under the sea. New deposits of metals and fuels will form. On planet Earth there are no system
“clouds,” no ultimate boundaries. Even real clouds in the sky are part of a hydrological cycle. Everything physical comes from somewhere, everything goes somewhere, everything
keeps moving. TIS final pgs 96 5/2/09 10:37:39 CHAPTER FOUR: WHY SYSTEMS SURPRISE US 97 Which is not to say that every model, mental or computer, has to follow each connection
until it includes the whole planet. Clouds are a necessary part of models that describe metaphysical flows. Anger literally “comes out of a cloud,” as does love, hatred, self
esteem, and so on. If we’re to understand anything, we have to simplify, which means we have to make boundaries. Often that’s a safe thing to do. It’s usually not a problem, for
example, to think of populations with births and deaths coming from and going to clouds, as in Figure 48. population births deaths Figure 48. More clouds. Figure 48 shows actual
“cradle to grave” boundaries. Even these boundaries would be unserviceable, however, if the population in question experienced significant in- or out-migration, or if the problem
under discussion was limited cemetery space. The lesson of boundaries is hard even for systems thinkers to get. There is no single, legitimate boundary to draw around a system. We
have to invent boundaries for clar- There are no separate ity and sanity; and boundaries can produce systems. The world is a problems when we forget that we’ve artificially
continuum. Where to draw created them. a boundary around a system When you draw boundaries too narrowly, the depends on the purpose of system surprises you. For example, if you try
to the discussion—the quesdeal with urban traffic problems without think- tions we want to ask. ing about settlement patterns, you build highways, which attract housing
developments along their whole length. Those households, in turn, put more cars on the highways, which then become just as clogged as before. If you try to solve a sewage problem
by throwing the waste into a river, the towns downstream make it clear that the boundary for thinking about sewage has to include the whole river. It might also have to include the
soil TIS final pgs 97 5/2/09 10:37:40 98 PART TWO: SYSTEMS AND US and groundwater surrounding the river. It probably doesn’t have to include the next watershed or the planetary
hydrological cycle. Planning for a national park used to stop at the physical boundary of the park. But park boundaries around the world are regularly crossed by nomadic peoples,
by migrating wildlife, by waters that flow into, out of, or under the park, by the effects of economic development at the park’s edges, by acid rain, and now by a climate changing
from greenhouse gases in the atmosphere. Even without climate change, to manage a park you have to think about a boundary wider than the official perimeter. Systems analysts often
fall into the opposite trap: making boundaries too large. They have a habit of producing diagrams that cover several pages with small print and many arrows connecting everything
with everything. There is the system! they say. If you have considered anything less, you are academically illegitimate. This “my model is bigger than your model” game results in
enormously complicated analyses, which produce piles of information that may only serve to obscure the answers to the questions at hand. For example, modeling the earth’s climate
in full detail is interesting for many reasons, but may not be necessary for figuring out how to reduce a country’s CO2 emissions to reduce climate change. The right boundary for
thinking about a problem rarely coincides with the boundary of an academic discipline, or with a political boundary. Rivers make handy borders between countries, but the worst
possible borders for managing the quantity and quality of the water. Air is worse than water in its insistence on crossing political borders. National boundaries mean nothing when
it comes to ozone depletion in the stratosphere, or greenhouse gases in the atmosphere, or ocean dumping. Ideally, we would have the mental flexibility to find the appropriate
boundary for thinking about each new problem. We are rarely that flexible. We get attached to the boundaries our minds happen to be accustomed to. Think how many arguments have to
do with boundaries—national boundaries, trade boundaries, ethnic boundaries, boundaries between public and private responsibility, and boundaries between the rich and the poor,
polluters and pollutees, people alive now and people who will come in the future. Universities can maintain disputes for years about the boundaries between economics and
government, art and art history, literature and literary criticism. Too often, universities are living monuments to boundary rigidity. TIS final pgs 98 5/2/09 10:37:40 CHAPTER
FOUR: WHY SYSTEMS SURPRISE US new sentences new fuel rods criminals in jail fuel rods in nuclear power plants 99 sentence completion fuel rod replacements hiring rate registered
unemployed layoff rate registration lapses Figure 49. Examples of more clouds. These are systems in which a boundary or cloud should not stop you from thinking beyond the borders
of the system, but start you thinking beyond those borders. What is driving the supply of people being given new sentences? Where do the fuel rods go after replacement? What
happens to an unemployed person whose registration for unemployment lapses? It’s a great art to remember that boundaries are of our own making, and that they can and should be
reconsidered for each new discussion, problem, or purpose. It’s a challenge to stay creative enough to drop the boundaries that worked for the last problem and to find the most
appropriate set of boundaries for the next question. It’s also a necessity, if problems are to be solved well. TIS final pgs 99 5/2/09 10:37:40 100 PART TWO: SYSTEMS AND US Layers
of Limits Systems surprise us because our minds like to think about single causes neatly producing single effects. We like to think about one or at most a few things at a time. And
we don’t like, especially when our own plans and desires are involved, to think about limits. But we live in a world in which many causes routinely come together to produce many
effects. Multiple inputs produce multiple outputs, and virtually all of the inputs, and therefore outputs, are limited. For example, an industrial manufacturing process needs: •
capital • labor • energy • raw materials • land • water • technology • credit • insurance • customers • good management • public-funded infrastructure and government services (such
as police and fire protection and education for managers and workers) • functioning families to bring up and care for both producers and consumers • a healthy ecosystem to supply
or support all these inputs and to absorb or carry away their wastes A patch of growing grain needs: • sunlight • air • water • nitrogen • phosphorus TIS final pgs 100 5/2/09
10:37:40 CHAPTER FOUR: WHY SYSTEMS SURPRISE US 101 • potassium • dozens of minor nutrients • a friable soil and the services of a microbial soil community • some system to control
weeds and pests • protection from the wastes of the industrial manufacturer It was with regard to grain that Justus von Liebig came up with his famous “law of the minimum.” It
doesn’t matter how much nitrogen is available to the grain, he said, if what’s short is phosphorus. It does no good to pour on more phosphorus, if the problem is low potassium.
Bread will not rise without yeast, no matter how much flour it has. Children will not thrive without protein, no matter how many carbohydrates they eat. Companies can’t keep going
without energy, no matter how many customers they have—or without customers, no matter how much energy they have. This concept of a limiting factor is simple and widely
misunderstood. Agronomists assume, for example, that they know what to put in artificial fertilizer, because they have At any given time, the identified many of the major and minor
nutrients input that is most imporin good soil. Are there any essential nutrients they tant to a system is the one have not identified? How do artificial fertilizers that is most
limiting. affect soil microbe communities? Do they interfere with, and therefore limit, any other functions of good soil? And what limits the production of artificial fertilizers?
Rich countries transfer capital or technology to poor ones and wonder why the economies of the receiving countries still don’t develop, never thinking that capital or technology
may not be the most limiting factors. Economics evolved in a time when labor and capital were the most common limiting factors to production. Therefore, most economic production
functions keep track only of these two factors (and sometimes technology). As the economy grows relative to the ecosystem, however, and the limiting factors shift to clean water,
clean air, dump space, and acceptable forms of energy and raw materials, the traditional focus on only capital and labor becomes increasingly unhelpful. One of the classic models
taught to systems students at MIT is Jay Forrester’s corporate-growth model. It starts with a successful young company, growing rapidly. The problem for this company is to
recognize TIS final pgs 101 5/2/09 10:37:40 102 PART TWO: SYSTEMS AND US and deal with its shifting limits—limits that change in response to the company’s own growth. The company
may hire salespeople, for example, who are so good that they generate orders faster than the factory can produce. Delivery delays increase and customers are lost, because
production capacity is the most limiting factor. So the managers expand the capital stock of production plants. New people are hired in a hurry and trained too little. Quality
suffers and customers are lost because labor skill is the most limiting factor. So management invests in worker training. Quality improves, new orders pour in, and the
order-fulfillment and record-keeping system clogs. And so forth. There are layers of limits around every growing plant, child, epidemic, new product, technological advance,
company, city, economy, and population. Insight comes not only from recognizing which factor is limiting, but from seeing that growth itself depletes or enhances limits and
therefore changes what is limiting. The interplay between a growing plant and the soil, a growing company and its market, a growing economy and its resource base, is dynamic.
Whenever one factor ceases to be limiting, growth occurs, and the growth itself changes the relative scarcity of factors until another becomes limiting. To shift attention from the
abundant factors to the next potential limiting factor is to gain real understanding of, and control over, the growth process. Any physical entity with multiple inputs and
outputs—a population, a production process, an economy—is surrounded by layers of limits. As the system develops, it interacts with and affects its own limits. The growing entity
and its limited environment together form a coevolving dynamic system. Understanding layers of limits and keeping an eye on the next upcoming limiting factor is not a recipe for
perpetual growth, Any physical entity with however. For any physical entity in a finite environmultiple inputs and out- ment, perpetual growth is impossible. Ultimately, puts is
surrounded by the choice is not to grow forever but to decide layers of limits. what limits to live within. If a company produces a perfect product or service at an affordable
price, it will be swamped with orders until it grows to the point at which some limit decreases the perfection of the product or raises its price. If a city meets the needs of all
its inhabitants better than any other city, people will flock there until some limit brings down the city’s ability to satisfy peoples’ needs.6 TIS final pgs 102 5/2/09 10:37:40
CHAPTER FOUR: WHY SYSTEMS SURPRISE US There always will be limits to growth. They can be self-imposed. If they aren’t, they will be systemimposed. No physical entity can grow
forever. If company managers, city governments, the human population do not choose and enforce their own limits to keep growth within the capacity of the supporting environment,
then the environment will choose and enforce limits. 103 There always will be limits to growth. They can be self-imposed. If they aren’t, they will be system-imposed. Ubiquitous
Delays I realize with fright that my impatience for the re-establishment of democracy had something almost communist in it; or, more generally, something rationalist. I had wanted
to make history move ahead in the same way that a child pulls on a plant to make it grow more quickly. I believe we must learn to wait as we learn to create. We have to patiently
sow the seeds, assiduously water the earth where they are sown and give the plants the time that is their own. One cannot fool a plant any more than one can fool history. —Václav
