as its interconnections and purposes remain intact. If the interconnections change, the system may be greatly altered. It may even become unrecognizable, even though the same
players are on the team. Change the rules from those of football to those of basketball, and you’ve got, as they say, a whole new ball game. If you change the interconnections in
the tree—say that instead of taking in carbon dioxide and emitting oxygen, it does the reverse—it would no longer be a tree. (It would be an animal.) If in a university the
students graded the professors, or if arguments were won by force instead of reason, the place would need a different name. It might be an interesting organization, but it would
not be a university. Changing interconnections in a system can change it dramatically. Changes in function or purpose also can be drastic. What if you keep the players and the
rules but change the purpose—from winning to losing, for example? What if the function of a tree were not to survive and repro- TIS final pgs 16 5/2/09 10:37:35 CHAPTER ONE: THE
BASICS 17 duce but to capture all the nutrients in the soil and grow to unlimited size? People have imagined many purposes for a university besides disseminating knowledge—making
money, indoctrinating people, winning football games. A change in purpose changes a system profoundly, even if every element and interconnection remains the same. To ask whether
elements, interconnections, or purposes are most important in a system is to ask an unsystemic question. All are essential. All interact. All have their roles. But the least
obvious part of the system, its function or purpose, is often the most crucial determinant of the system’s behavior. Interconnections are also critically important. Changing
relationships usually changes system behavior. The elements, the parts of systems we are most likely to notice, are often (not always) least important in defining the unique
characteristics of the system—unless changing an element also results in changing relationships or purpose. Changing just one leader at the top—from a Brezhnev to a Gorbachev, or
from a Carter to a Reagan—may or may not turn an entire nation in a new direction, though its land, factories, and hundreds of millions of people remain exactly the same. A leader
can make that land and those factories and people play a different game with new rules, or can direct the play toward a new purpose. And conversely, because land, factories, and
people are long-lived, slowly changing, physical elements of the system, there is a limit to the rate at which any leader can turn the direction of a nation. Bathtubs
101—Understanding System Behavior over Time Information contained in nature . . . allows us a partial reconstruction of the past. . . . The development of the meanders in a river,
the increasing complexity of the earth’s crust . . . are information-storing devices in the same manner that genetic systems are. . . . Storing information means increasing the
complexity of the mechanism. —Ramon Margalef 2 A stock is the foundation of any system. Stocks are the elements of the system that you can see, feel, count, or measure at any given
time. A system stock is just what it sounds like: a store, a quantity, an accumulation of TIS final pgs 17 5/2/09 10:37:35 18 PART ONE: SYSTEM STRUCTURE AND BEHAVIOR material or
information that has built up over time. It may be the water in a bathtub, a population, the books in a bookstore, the wood in a tree, the money in a bank, your own
self-confidence. A stock does not have to be physical. Your reserve of good will toward others A stock is the memory of or your supply of hope that the world can be better the
history of changing are both stocks. ﬂows within the system. Stocks change over time through the actions of a flow. Flows are filling and draining, births and deaths, purchases and
sales, growth and decay, deposits and withdrawals, successes and failures. A stock, then, is the present memory of the history of changing flows within the system. stock inﬂow
outﬂow Figure 1. How to read stock-and-ﬂow diagrams. In this book, stocks are shown as boxes, and ﬂows as arrow-headed “pipes” leading into or out of the stocks. The small T on
each ﬂow signiﬁes a “faucet;” it can be turned higher or lower, on or off. The “clouds” stand for wherever the ﬂows come from and go to—the sources and sinks that are being ignored
for the purposes of the present discussion. For example, an underground mineral deposit is a stock, out of which comes a flow of ore through mining. The inflow of ore into a
mineral deposit is minute in any time period less than eons. So I have chosen to draw (Figure 2) a simplified picture of the system without any inflow. All system diagrams and
descriptions are simplified versions of the real world. mineral deposit mining Figure 2. A stock of minerals depleted by mining. Water in a reservoir behind a dam is a stock, into
which flow rain and river water, and out of which flows evaporation from the reservoir’s surface as well as the water discharged through the dam. TIS final pgs 18 5/2/09 10:37:35
CHAPTER ONE: THE BASICS rain 19 evaporation water in reservoir river inﬂow discharge Figure 3. A stock of water in a reservoir with multiple inﬂows and outﬂows. The volume of wood
in the living trees in a forest is a stock. Its inflow is the growth of the trees. Its outflows are the natural deaths of trees and the harvest by loggers. The logging harvest
flows into another stock, perhaps an inventory of lumber at a mill. Wood flows out of the inventory stock as lumber sold to customers. logging tree growth wood in living trees
lumber inventory tree deaths lumber sales Figure 4. A stock of lumber linked to a stock of trees in a forest. If you understand the dynamics of stocks and flows—their behavior over
time—you understand a good deal about the behavior of complex systems. And if you have had much experience with a bathtub, you understand the dynamics of stocks and flows. inﬂow
water in tub outﬂow Figure 5. The structure of a bathtub system—one stock with one inﬂow and one outﬂow. Imagine a bathtub filled with water, with its drain plugged up and its
faucets turned off—an unchanging, undynamic, boring system. Now TIS final pgs 19 5/2/09 10:37:35 20 PART ONE: SYSTEM STRUCTURE AND BEHAVIOR mentally pull the plug. The water runs
out, of course. The level of water in the tub goes down until the tub is empty. 50 stock of water in the tub gallons 40 30 20 10 0 0 2 4 minutes 6 8 10 Figure 6. Water level in a
tub when the plug is pulled. A NOTE ON READING GRAPHS OF BEHAVIOR OVER TIME Systems thinkers use graphs of system behavior to understand trends over time, rather than focusing
attention on individual events. We also use behavior-over-time graphs to learn whether the system is approaching a goal or a limit, and if so, how quickly. The variable on the
graph may be a stock or a ﬂow. The pattern—the shape of the variable line—is important, as are the points at which that line changes shape or direction. The precise numbers on the
axes are often less important. The horizontal axis of time allows you to ask questions about what came before, and what might happen next. It can help you focus on the time horizon
appropriate to the question or problem you are investigating. Now imagine starting again with a full tub, and again open the drain, but this time, when the tub is about half empty,
turn on the inflow faucet so the rate of water flowing in is just equal to that flowing out. What happens? TIS final pgs 20 5/2/09 10:37:35 CHAPTER ONE: THE BASICS 21 The amount of
water in the tub stays constant at whatever level it had reached when the inflow became equal to the outflow. It is in a state of dynamic equilibrium—its level does not change,
although water is continuously flowing through it. 10 gallons/minute 8 6 outﬂow 4 2 inﬂow 0 4 minutes 2 0 10 8 6 50 stock of water in the tub 40 gallons 30 20 10 0 0 2 4 minutes 6
8 10 Figure 7. Constant outﬂow, inﬂow turned on after 5 minutes, and the resulting changes in the stock of water in the tub. Imagine turning the inflow on somewhat harder while
keeping the outflow constant. The level of water in the tub slowly rises. If you then turn the inflow TIS final pgs 21 5/2/09 10:37:35 22 PART ONE: SYSTEM STRUCTURE AND BEHAVIOR
faucet down again to match the outflow exactly, the water in the tub will stop rising. Turn it down some more, and the water level will fall slowly. This model of a bathtub is a
very simple system with just one stock, one inflow, and one outflow. Over the time period of interest (minutes), I have assumed that evaporation from the tub is insignificant, so I
have not included that outflow. All models, whether mental models or mathematical models, are simplifications of the real world. You know all the dynamic possibilities of this
bathtub. From it you can deduce several important principles that extend to more complicated systems: • As long as the sum of all inflows exceeds the sum of all outflows, the level
of the stock will rise. • As long as the sum of all outflows exceeds the sum of all inflows, the level of the stock will fall. • If the sum of all outflows equals the sum of all
inflows, the stock level will not change; it will be held in dynamic equilibrium at whatever level it happened to be when the two sets of flows became equal. The human mind seems
to focus more easily on stocks than on flows. On top of that, when we do focus on flows, we tend to focus on inflows more easily than on outflows. Therefore, we sometimes miss
seeing that we can fill a bathtub not only by increasing the inflow rate, A stock can be increased but also by decreasing the outflow rate. Everyone by decreasing its outﬂow
understands that you can prolong the life of an oilrate as well as by increas- based economy by discovering new oil deposits. It ing its inﬂow rate. There’s seems to be harder to
understand that the same more than one way to ﬁll a result can be achieved by burning less oil. A breakbathtub! through in energy efficiency is equivalent, in its effect on the
stock of available oil, to the discovery of a new oil field—although different people profit from it. Similarly, a company can build up a larger workforce by more hiring, or it can
do the same thing by reducing the rates of quitting and firing. These two strategies may have very different costs. The wealth of a nation can be boosted by investment to build up
a larger stock of factories and machines. It also can be boosted, often more cheaply, by decreasing the rate at which factories and machines wear out, break down, or are discarded.
TIS final pgs 22 5/2/09 10:37:35 CHAPTER ONE: THE BASICS 23 You can adjust the drain or faucet of a bathtub—the flows—abruptly, but it is much more difficult to change the level of
water—the stock— quickly. Water can’t run out the drain instantly, even if you open the drain all the way. The tub can’t fill up immediately, even with the inflow faucet on full
blast. A stock takes time to change, because flows take time to flow. That’s a vital point, a key to understanding why systems behave as they do. Stocks usually change slowly. They
can act as delays, lags, buffers, ballast, and sources of momentum in a system. Stocks, especially large ones, respond to change, even sudden Stocks generally change change, only
by gradual filling or emptying. slowly, even when the ﬂows People often underestimate the inherent into or out of them change momentum of a stock. It takes a long time for
suddenly. Therefore, stocks populations to grow or stop growing, for wood act as delays or buffers or to accumulate in a forest, for a reservoir to fill up, shock absorbers in
systems. for a mine to be depleted. An economy cannot build up a large stock of functioning factories and highways and electric plants overnight, even if a lot of money is
available. Once an economy has a lot of oil-burning furnaces and automobile engines, it cannot change quickly to furnaces and engines that burn a different fuel, even if the price
of oil suddenly changes. It has taken decades to accumulate the stratospheric pollutants that destroy the earth’s ozone layer; it will take decades for those pollutants to be
removed. Changes in stocks set the pace of the dynamics of systems. Industrialization cannot proceed faster than the rate at which factories and machines can be constructed and the
rate at which human beings can be educated to run and maintain them. Forests can’t grow overnight. Once contaminants have accumulated in groundwater, they can be washed out only at
the rate of groundwater turnover, which may take decades or even centuries. The time lags that come from slowly changing stocks can cause problems in systems, but they also can be
sources of stability. Soil that has accumulated over centuries rarely erodes all at once. A population that has learned many skills doesn’t forget them immediately. You can pump
groundwater faster than the rate it recharges for a long time before the aquifer is drawn down far enough to be damaged. The time lags imposed by stocks allow room to maneuver, to
experiment, and to revise policies that aren’t working. If you have a sense of the rates of change of stocks, you don’t expect things to happen faster than they can happen. You
don’t give up too soon. TIS final pgs 23 5/2/09 10:37:35 24 PART ONE: SYSTEM STRUCTURE AND BEHAVIOR You can use the opportunities presented by a system’s momentum to guide it
toward a good outcome—much as a judo expert uses the momentum of an opponent to achieve his or her own goals. There is one more important principle about the role of stocks in
systems, a principle that will lead us directly to the concept of feedback. The presence of stocks allows inflows and outflows to be Stocks allow inﬂows and independent of each
other and temporarily out of outﬂows to be decoupled balance with each other. and to be independent It would be hard to run an oil company if gasoand temporarily out of line had to
be produced at the refinery at exactly balance with each other. the rate the cars were burning it. It isn’t feasible to harvest a forest at the precise rate at which the trees are
growing. Gasoline in storage tanks and wood in the forest are both stocks that permit life to proceed with some certainty, continuity, and predictability, even though flows vary in
the short term. Human beings have invented hundreds of stock-maintaining mechanisms to make inflows and outflows independent and stable. Reservoirs enable residents and farmers
downriver to live without constantly adjusting their lives and work to a river’s varying flow, especially its droughts and floods. Banks enable you temporarily to earn money at a
rate different from how you spend. Inventories of products along a chain from distributors to wholesalers to retailers allow production to proceed smoothly although customer demand
varies, and allow customer demand to be filled even though production rates vary. Most individual and institutional decisions are designed to regulate the levels in stocks. If
inventories rise too high, then prices are cut or advertising budgets are increased, so that sales will go up and inventories will fall. If the stock of food in your kitchen gets
low, you go to the store. As the stock of growing grain rises or fails to rise in the fields, farmers decide whether to apply water or pesticide, grain companies decide how many
barges to book for the harvest, speculators bid on future values of the harvest, cattle growers build up or cut down their herds. Water levels in reservoirs cause all sorts of
corrective actions if they rise too high or fall too low. The same can be said for the stock of money in your wallet, the oil reserves owned by an oil company, the pile of
woodchips feeding a paper mill, and the concentration of pollutants in a lake. People monitor stocks constantly and make decisions and take actions TIS final pgs 24 5/2/09 10:37:35
CHAPTER ONE: THE BASICS 25 designed to raise or lower stocks or to keep them within acceptable ranges. Those decisions add up to the ebbs and flows, successes and problems, of all
sorts of systems. Systems thinkers see the world as a collection of stocks along with the mechanisms for regulating the levels in the stocks by manipulating flows. That means
system thinkers see the world as a collection of “feedback processes.” How the System Runs Itself—Feedback Systems of information-feedback control are fundamental to all life and
human endeavor, from the slow pace of biological evolution to the launching of the latest space satellite. . . . Everything we do as individuals, as an industry, or as a society is
done in the context of an information-feedback system. —Jay W. Forrester3 When a stock grows by leaps and bounds or declines swiftly or is held within a certain range no matter
what else is going on around it, it is likely that there is a control mechanism at work. In other words, if you see a behavior that persists over time, there is likely a mechanism
creating that consistent behavior. That mechanism operates through a feedback loop. It is the consistent behavior pattern over a long period of time that is the first hint of the
existence of a feedback loop. A feedback loop is formed when changes in a stock affect the flows into or out of that same stock. A feedback loop can be quite simple and direct.
Think of an interest-bearing savings account in a bank. The total amount of money in the account (the stock) affects how much money comes into the account as interest. That is
because the bank has a rule that the account earns a certain percent interest each year. The total dollars of interest paid into the account each year (the flow in) is not a fixed
amount, but varies with the size of the total in the account. You experience another fairly direct kind of feedback loop when you get your bank statement for your checking account
each month. As your level of available cash in the checking account (a stock) goes down, you may decide to work more hours and earn more money. The money entering TIS final pgs 25
5/2/09 10:37:35 26 PART ONE: SYSTEM STRUCTURE AND BEHAVIOR your bank account is a flow that you can adjust in order to increase your stock of cash to a more desirable level. If
your bank account then grows very large, you may feel free to work less (decreasing the inflow). This kind of feedback loop is keeping your level of cash available within a range
that is acceptable to you. You can see that adjusting your earnings is not the only feedback loop that works on your stock of cash. You also may be able to adjust the outflow of
money from your account, for example. You can imagine an outflow-adjusting feedback loop for spending. Feedback loops can cause stocks to maintain their level within a range or
grow or decline. In any case, the flows into or out of the stock are adjusted because of changes in the size of the stock itself. Whoever or whatever is monitoring the stock’s
level begins a corrective process, adjusting rates of inflow or outflow (or both) and so changing the stock’s level. The stock level feeds back through a chain of signals and
actions to control itself. inﬂow stock outﬂow stock Figure 8. How to read a stock-and-ﬂow diagram with feedback loops. Each diagram distinguishes the stock, the ﬂow that changes
the stock, and the information link (shown as a thin, curved arrow) that directs the action. It emphasizes that action or change always proceeds through adjusting ﬂows. TIS final
pgs 26 5/2/09 10:37:35 CHAPTER ONE: THE BASICS Not all systems have feedback loops. Some systems are relatively simple open-ended chains of stocks and flows. The chain may be
affected by outside factors, but the levels of the chain’s stocks don’t affect its flows. However, those systems that contain feedback loops are common and may be quite elegant or
rather surprising, as we shall see. 27 A feedback loop is a closed chain of causal connections from a stock, through a set of decisions or rules or physical laws or actions that
are dependent on the level of the stock, and back again through a ﬂow to change the stock. Stabilizing Loops—Balancing Feedback One common kind of feedback loop stabilizes the
stock level, as in the checking-account example. The stock level may not remain completely fixed, but it does stay within an acceptable range. What follows are some more
stabilizing feedback loops that may be familiar to you. These examples start to detail some of the steps within a feedback loop. If you’re a coffee drinker, when you feel your
energy level run low, you may grab a cup of hot black stuff to perk you up again. You, as the coffee drinker, hold in your mind a desired stock level (energy for work). The purpose
of this caffeine-delivery system is to keep your actual stock level near or at your desired level. (You may have other purposes for drinking coffee as well: enjoying the flavor or
engaging in a social activity.) It is the metabolic mobilization of energy energy expenditure energy available for work stored energy in body coffee intake B desired energy level
discrepancy Figure 9. Energy level of a coffee drinker. TIS final pgs 27 5/2/09 10:37:35 28 PART ONE: SYSTEM STRUCTURE AND BEHAVIOR gap, the discrepancy, between your actual and
desired levels of energy for work that drives your decisions to adjust your daily caffeine intake. Notice that the labels in Figure 9, like all the diagram labels in this book, are
direction-free. The label says “stored energy in body” not “low energy level,” “coffee intake” not “more coffee.” That’s because feedback loops often can operate in two directions.
In this case, the feedback loop can correct an oversupply as well as an undersupply. If you drink too much coffee and find yourself bouncing around with extra energy, you’ll lay
off the caffeine for a while. High energy creates a discrepancy that says “too much,” which then causes you to reduce your coffee intake until your energy level settles down. The
diagram is intended to show that the loop works to drive the stock of energy in either direction. I could have shown the inflow of energy coming from a cloud, but instead I made
the system diagram slightly more complicated. Remember—all system diagrams are simplifications of the real world. We each choose how much complexity to look at. In this example, I
drew another stock—the stored energy in the body that can be activated by the caffeine. I did that to indicate that there is more to the system than one simple loop. As every
coffee drinker knows, caffeine is only a short-term stimulant. It lets you run your motor faster, but it doesn’t refill your personal fuel tank. Eventually the caffeine high wears
off, leaving the body more energy-deficient than it was before. That drop could reactivate the feedback loop and generate another trip to the coffee pot. (See the discussion of
addiction later in this book.) Or it could activate some longer-term and healthier feedback responses: Eat some food, take a walk, get some sleep. This kind of stabilizing,
goal-seeking, regulating loop is called a balancing feedback loop, so I put a B inside the loop in the diagram. Balancing feedback loops are goal-seeking or stability-seeking. Each
tries to keep a stock at a given value or within a range of values. A balancing feedback loop opposes whatever direction of change is imposed on the system. If you push a stock too
far up, a balancing loop will try to pull it back down. If you shove it too far down, a balancing loop will try to bring it back up. Here’s another balancing feedback loop that
involves coffee, but one that works through physical law rather than human decision. A hot cup of coffee will gradually cool down to room temperature. Its rate of cooling depends
on the difference between the temperature of the coffee and the temperature of the room. The greater the difference, the faster the coffee TIS final pgs 28 5/2/09 10:37:36 CHAPTER
ONE: THE BASICS 29 will cool. The loop works the other way too—if you make iced coffee on a hot day, it will warm up until it has the same temperature as the room. The function of
this system is to bring the discrepancy between coffee’s temperature and room’s temperature to zero, no matter what the direction of the discrepancy. cooling heating coffee
temperature room temperature coffee temperature B B discrepancy discrepancy room temperature Figure 10. A cup of coffee cooling (left) or warming (right). Starting with coffee at
different temperatures, from just below boiling to just above freezing, the graphs in Figure 11 show what will happen to the temperature over time (if you don’t drink the coffee).
You can see here the “homing” behavior of a balancing feedback loop. Whatever the initial value of the system stock (coffee temperature in this case), whether it is above or below
the “goal” (room temperature), the feedback loop brings it toward 100 temperature (ºC) 80 60 hot coffee cooling 40 room temperature = 18ºC 20 iced coffee warming 0 0 2 4 minutes 6
8 Figure 11. Coffee temperature as it approaches a room temperature of 18°C. TIS final pgs 29 5/2/09 10:37:36 30 PART ONE: SYSTEM STRUCTURE AND BEHAVIOR the goal. The change is
faster at first, and then slower, as the discrepancy between the stock and the goal decreases. This behavior pattern—gradual approach to Balancing feedback loops are a
system-defined goal— also can be seen when equilibrating or goal-seeking a radioactive element decays, when a missile structures in systems and finds its target, when an asset
depreciates, when are both sources of stability a reservoir is brought up or down to its desired and sources of resistance to level, when your body adjusts its blood-sugar change.
concentration, when you pull your car to a stop at a stoplight. You can think of many more examples. The world is full of goal-seeking feedback loops. The presence of a feedback
mechanism doesn’t necessarily mean that the mechanism works well. The feedback mechanism may not be strong enough to bring the stock to the desired level. Feedbacks—the
interconnections, the information part of the system—can fail for many reasons. Information can arrive too late or at the wrong place. It can be unclear or incomplete or hard to
interpret. The action it triggers may be too weak or delayed or resourceconstrained or simply ineffective. The goal of the feedback loop may never be reached by the actual stock.
But in the simple example of a cup of coffee, the drink eventually will reach room temperature. Runaway Loops—Reinforcing Feedback I’d need rest to refresh my brain, and to get
rest it’s necessary to travel, and to travel one must have money, and in order to get money you have to work. . . . I am in a vicious circle . . . from which it is impossible to
escape. —Honoré Balzac,4 19th century novelist and playwright Here we meet a very important feature. It would seem as if this were circular reasoning; profits fell because
investment fell, and investment fell because profits fell. —Jan Tinbergen,5 economist The second kind of feedback loop is amplifying, reinforcing, self-multiplying, snowballing—a
vicious or virtuous circle that can cause healthy growth TIS final pgs 30 5/2/09 10:37:36 CHAPTER ONE: THE BASICS 31 or runaway destruction. It is called a reinforcing feedback
loop, and will be noted with an R in the diagrams. It generates more input to a stock the more that is already there (and less input the less that is already there). A reinforcing
feedback loop enhances whatever direction of change is imposed on it. For example: • When we were kids, the more my brother pushed me, the more I pushed him back, so the more he
pushed me back, so the more I pushed him back. • The more prices go up, the more wages have to go up if people are to maintain their standards of living. The more wages go up, the
more prices have to go up to maintain profits. This means that wages have to go up again, so prices go up again. • The more rabbits there are, the more rabbit parents there are to
make baby rabbits. The more baby rabbits there are, the more grow up to become rabbit parents, to have even more baby rabbits. • The more soil is eroded from the land, the less
plants are able to grow, so the fewer roots there are to hold the soil, so the more soil is eroded, so less plants can grow. • The more I practice piano, the more pleasure I get
from the sound, and so the more I play the piano, which gives me more practice. Reinforcing loops are found wherever a system element has the ability to reproduce itself or to grow
as a constant fraction of itself. Those elements include populations and economies. Remember the example of interest added money in bank account interest rate R Figure 12.
Interest-bearing bank account. TIS final pgs 31 5/2/09 10:37:36 32 PART ONE: SYSTEM STRUCTURE AND BEHAVIOR the interest-bearing bank account? The more money you have in the bank,
the more interest you earn, which is added to the money already in the bank, where it earns even more interest. Figure 13 shows how this reinforcing loop multiplies money, starting
with $100 in the bank, and assuming no deposits and no withdrawals over a period of twelve years. The five lines show five different interest rates, from 2 percent to 10 percent
per year. dollars 350 300 $313.84 10% interest 250 $251.82 8% interest 200 $201.22 6% interest $160.10 4% interest $126.82 2% interest 150 100 50 0 0 3 6 years 9 12 Figure 13.
Growth in savings with various interest rates. This is not simple linear growth. It is not constant over time. The growth of the bank account at lower interest rates may look
linear in the first few years. But, in fact, growth goes faster and faster. The more is there, the more is added. This kind of growth is called “exponential.” It’s either good news
or bad news, depending on what is growing—money in the bank, people with HIV/AIDS, pests in a cornfield, a national economy, or weapons in an arms race. Reinforcing feedback loops
are self-enhancing, leading In Figure 14, the more machines and factories to exponential growth or (collectively called “capital”) you have, the more to runaway collapses over
goods and services (“output”) you can produce. time. They are found when- The more output you can produce, the more you ever a stock has the capaccan invest in new machines and
factories. The ity to reinforce or reproduce more you make, the more capacity you have to itself. make even more. This reinforcing feedback loop is the central engine of growth in
an economy. TIS final pgs 32 5/2/09 10:37:36 CHAPTER ONE: THE BASICS 33 investment capital fraction of output invested R output Figure 14. Reinvestment in capital. By now you may
be seeing how basic balancing and reinforcing feedback loops are to systems. Sometimes I challenge my students to try to think of any human decision that occurs without a feedback
loop—that is, a decision that is made without regard to any information about the level of the stock it influences. Try thinking about that yourself. The more you do, the more
you’ll begin to see feedback loops everywhere. The most common “non-feedback” decisions students suggest are falling in love and committing suicide. I’ll leave it to you to decide
whether you think these are actually decisions made with no feedback involved. Watch out! If you see feedback loops everywhere, you’re already in danger of becoming a systems
thinker! Instead of seeing only how A causes B, you’ll begin to wonder how B may also influence A—and how A might reinforce or reverse itself. When you hear in the nightly news
that the Federal Reserve HINT ON REINFORCING LOOPS AND DOUBLING TIME Because we bump into reinforcing loops so often, it is handy to know this shortcut: The time it takes for an
exponentially growing stock to double in size, the “doubling time,” equals approximately 70 divided by the growth rate (expressed as a percentage). Example: If you put $100 in the
bank at 7% interest per year, you will double your money in 10 years (70 ÷ 7 = 10). If you get only 5% interest, your money will take 14 years to double. TIS final pgs 33 5/2/09
10:37:36 34 PART ONE: SYSTEM STRUCTURE AND BEHAVIOR Bank has done something to control the economy, you’ll also see that the economy must have done something to affect the Federal
Reserve Bank. When someone tells you that population growth causes poverty, you’ll ask yourself how poverty may cause population growth. THINK ABOUT THIS: If A causes B, is it
possible that B also causes A? You’ll be thinking not in terms of a static world, but a dynamic one. You’ll stop looking for who’s to blame; instead you’ll start asking, “What’s
the system?” The concept of feedback opens up the idea that a system can cause its own behavior. So far, I have limited this discussion to one kind of feedback loop at a time. Of
course, in real systems feedback loops rarely come singly. They are linked together, often in fantastically complex patterns. A single stock is likely to have several reinforcing
and balancing loops of differing strengths pulling it in several directions. A single flow may be adjusted by the contents of three or five or twenty stocks. It may fill one stock
while it drains another and feeds into decisions that alter yet another. The many feedback loops in a system tug against each other, trying to make stocks grow, die off, or come
into balance with each other. As a result, complex systems do much more than stay steady or explode exponentially or approach goals smoothly—as we shall see. TIS final pgs 34
5/2/09 10:37:36 — TWO — A Brief Visit to the Systems Zoo The . . . goal of all theory is to make the . . . basic elements as simple and as few as possible without having to
surrender the adequate representation of . . . experience. —Albert Einstein,1 physicist One good way to learn something new is through specific examples rather than abstractions
and generalities, so here are several common, simple but important examples of systems that are useful to understand in their own right and that will illustrate many general
principles of complex systems. This collection has some of the same strengths and weaknesses as a zoo.2 It gives you an idea of the large variety of systems that exist in the
world, but it is far from a complete representation of that variety. It groups the animals by family—monkeys here, bears there (single-stock systems here, two-stock systems
there)—so you can observe the characteristic behaviors of monkeys, as opposed to bears. But, like a zoo, this collection is too neat. To make the animals visible and
understandable, it separates them from each other and from their normal concealing environment. Just as zoo animals more naturally occur mixed together in ecosystems, so the
systems animals described here normally connect and interact with each other and with others not illustrated here— all making up the buzzing, hooting, chirping, changing complexity
in which we live. Ecosystems come later. For the moment, let’s look at one system animal at a time. TIS final pgs 35 5/2/09 10:37:36 36 PART ONE: SYSTEM STRUCTURE AND BEHAVIOR
One-Stock Systems A Stock with Two Competing Balancing Loops—a Thermostat You already have seen the “homing in” behavior of the goal-seeking balancing feedback loop—the coffee cup
cooling. What happens if there are two such loops, trying to drag a single stock toward two different goals? One example of such a system is the thermostat mechanism that regulates
the heating of your room (or cooling, if it is connected to an air conditioner instead of a furnace). Like all models, the representation of a thermostat in Figure 15 is a
simplification of a real home heating system. heat from furnace heat to outside room temperature thermostat setting B B outside temperature discrepancy between discrepancy between
desired and actual inside and outside room temperatures temperatures Figure 15. Room temperature regulated by a thermostat and furnace. Whenever the room temperature falls below
the thermostat setting, the thermostat detects a discrepancy and sends a signal that turns on the heat flow from the furnace, warming the room. When the room temperature rises
again, the thermostat turns off the heat flow. This straightforward, stock-maintaining, balancing feedback loop is shown on the left side of Figure 15. If there were nothing else
in the system, and if you start with a cold room with the thermostat set at 18°C (65°F), it would behave as shown in Figure 16. The furnace comes on, and the room warms up. When
the room temperature reaches the thermostat setting, the furnace goes off, and the room stays right at the target temperature. However, this is not the only loop in the system.
Heat also leaks to the outside. The outflow of heat is governed by the second balancing feedback loop, shown on the right side of Figure 15. It is always trying to make the room
temperature equal to the outside, just like a coffee cup cooling. If TIS final pgs 36 5/2/09 10:37:36 CHAPTER TWO: A BRIEF VISIT TO THE SYSTEMS ZOO 20 37 68 thermostat setting 59
room temperature 10 50 5 41 0 32 -5 temperature ºF temperature ºC 15 23 0 2 4 hour 6 8 Figure 16. A cold room warms quickly to the thermostat setting. 20 68 room temperature 59 10
50 outside temperature 5 41 0 32 -5 temperature ºF temperature ºC 15 23 0 2 4 hour 6 8 Figure 17. A warm room cools very slowly to the outside temperature of 10°C. this were the
only loop in the system (if there were no furnace), Figure 17 shows what would happen, starting with a warm room on a cold day. The assumption is that room insulation is not
perfect, and so some heat leaks out of the warm room to the cool outdoors. The better the insulation, the slower the drop in temperature would be. Now, what happens when these two
loops operate at the same time? Assuming that there is sufficient insulation and a properly sized furnace, the heating loop dominates the cooling loop. You end up with a warm room
(see Figure 18), even starting with a cold room on a cold day. TIS final pgs 37 5/2/09 10:37:36 38 PART ONE: SYSTEM STRUCTURE AND BEHAVIOR 20 68 thermostat setting 59 room
temperature 10 50 5 41 0 32 -5 temperature ºF temperature ºC 15 23 0 2 4 hour 6 8 Figure 18. The furnace warms a cool room, even as heat continues to leak from the room. As the
room heats up, the heat flowing out of it increases, because there’s a larger gap between inside and outside temperatures. But the furnace keeps putting in more heat than the
amount that leaks out, so the room warms nearly to the target temperature. At that point, the furnace cycles off and on as it compensates for the heat constantly flowing out of the
room. The thermostat is set at 18°C (65°F) in this simulation, but the room temperature levels off slightly below 18°C (65°F). That’s because of the leak to the outside, which is
draining away some heat even as the furnace is getting the signal to put it back. This is a characteristic and sometimes surprising behavior of a system with competing balancing
loops. It’s like trying to keep a bucket full when there’s a hole in the bottom. To make things worse, water leaking out of the hole is governed by a feedback loop; the more water
in the bucket, the more the water pressure at the hole increases, so the flow out increases! In this case, we are trying to keep the room warmer than the outside and the warmer the
room is, the faster it loses heat to the outside. It takes time for the furnace to correct for the increased heat loss—and in that minute still more heat leaks out. In a
well-insulated house, the leak will be slower and so the house more comfortable than a poorly insulated one, even a poorly insulated house with a big furnace. With home heating
systems, people have learned to set the thermostat slightly higher than the actual temperature they are aiming at. Exactly how much higher can be a tricky question, because the
