That's, it's, it's, as me, in American, I can move forward. Yeah, low key, low key look like he got wicks. Right, right, right. So, I'm gonna put his, uh, I'm gonna put his ears.
I'll make like a little half inch of, like, fake hair and a mane and shit in front of his ears to make it more in his shit, like a mane and shit. No, that's cool, bro. So, so, how
do you know what you're gonna drop first, right? Because, like, there's so many different parts of it. Did you draw up clothes first? Do you drop the film 1st or the book 1st or
goddamn, what? What, what, what, what is technically 1st in getting this show started for my group entertainment and shit? Uh, well, really just all about what was done. So it's
like, um, It's like 2 different tracks, so we're now, I'm about to start doing production for the maroon film. So that's how I spent this whole morning getting all the niggas back
on the back on the road and shit with that. Somebody up doing this in COVID project short. like, man, I really can shoot because really, it really is 2 part, 2 person store. I can
really shoot the division 3 days. Yeah. So I'm going to Savannah with that bitch in like 3 weeks and shit. Get it done while you out there and shit, but... Right? So I'm just
saying whatever resource we have, I'm like, I'm just seeing reading the storyline. I don't really need too much stuff I need 2 main actors. There's some background stuff, but
that's all the coordination and shit. Niggas fucking with it out loud, you know what I'm saying? based on a me promoter, right? You already know about the shit. So, like, yo, I can
just tap into that. So I'm like, I can really shoot that bitch in a month. I just give people the respect of planning with me and shit. Um, so, I'm just, that's what I'm doing
today and I read or try to go, okay. Okay, I can start my room now because animated. Everybody, I need to be involved and involved and shit, get the white bitch from the OTC on
board. She want to like get her freak off with it with that shit. They have her produce it just so I can like, cook it in right place. I got to do everything, get, okay, get a
bloosers, and the next one will be my, get them producers involved. get a little freak garbage from span, go shoot that bitch, her basketball, go on it. see what resource you got,
and the next one will be, uh, Echo finally finished that one and shit. I don't got the resources to really freak that bitch. So they're trying to see how far can I go with no
money? You know, it's summer. So I got a whole bunch of my France niggas, animated niggas. Yo, looking for new God, June 30th, August 29th. I'm free for 16 weeks, looking for
internships. Yeah, fuck with me and shit. went an Oscar bitch any. So that's, I'm trying to get the niggas for the summer here and shit. Yo, you ain't gonna do a shit out. So, so
you'll feel, so those films are those dropping underlying group entertainment? Uh, but yeah, it's like, it's, you kind of do it. you kind of do it through the product making shit.
So it's like, yeah, it's line group entertainment in theory, but we haven't made nothing. it don't really, it don't really matter. So me, it's like what matters is my my, my, my
personal brand. So if they, if I can, if I can show proof through product and shit, that will determine what people are expecting of me so long that I put quality product out and
shit. And the Zion shit would just naturally... It is an acting bubble because I feel like it's just, it's, it's an evergreen content. So it'll probably be 2 different tracks.
Yeah. I'll be doing. So I love the director lad stuff. be where I'm pushing out, uh, because I ain't shit, it may it may be at best interest to to drop that bitch in January and
shit because like that got so too much individual emotion and shit. Maybe best to just keep, keep this on the top, developing the, uh, the app and all the care provider apps, get
that shit up to like 5000 kids and employ that bitch what they had at 1st and shit. Mm-hmm. How far away is that shit? I mean, it's still, it's still, it's still in development,
shit. I had, like, took like a week break for the LA shit, but, um, got to talk to the, talk to the little captain and go, yesterday and sugar, talk to them again. We have a catch.
We have a meeting on Friday too. I got to go and eat one of the developers like right now or shit downtown. Um, but I just updating her about everything. Um, So really, it really
just about, I said, the same thing, what to do first. So if you go to LA to see what type of what type of actual motion is coming on. So I know how to spend my time and shit. Okay,
Ben, I'm good. Care provider at first. If I do that, then it's easier to do the payment shit because I can just be the processor for this shit. work too hard, trying to get a
client and shit. Oh. So that's that's kind of what we're going to do. We gonna do a care provider thing. Oh. And then stack up the movies. So we're just trying to see what was in
my corner to lean on or shit. Yeah. Not as I should, I heard of. That's nice. Like, this is like, it's, it's evergreen, but it's like, that's not, I don't say, voice inter, but
it's a male character. and that's, this other one is like intrigis and shit. It could turn from up. from a little woman to a girl and something, I'm never going to explain what it
is and shit, because it's marinator. It's name is Coda, the cubfish, supposed to symbolize change and return. It's like the cycle like moon goes through cycles and shit. So,
supposed to be women coded, but it transforms like a tadpole to a to a cub. where it goes through both. So sometimes buy that shit with a fin, buy that shit with feet and shit. You
gotta send that shit? Yeah, my sinners. So this is like the Denmark twins in a sense of like the, the gathering and the social, uh, is, is an arrival, is Zion, symbolizes the sun.
It's like, where is there? When people gather, orientation, or fun, something, and realize what you are, that's kind of, um, what, uh, science represents. And then the, the, the,
um, the leaving and then returning part of the, of that act is what code represents the change you make from once you leave and come back. So it's kind of like a cycle, so once it
gets there, that's where the sun kind of takes over and that's what it's like, desperate design, is once you're there, the experience you have, once you're in this, in this, in
this, in this place, in this, in the place. when you leave, then when parents you have, when you're away and coming back, that's that's the coded thing. So I just sent you that
one. Yeah, middle stuff, bear stuff, little, whatever the fuck. Is that tapo? I call a cubfish and shit. Yeah. create, nigga, created some shit. Nah, that's cool though. It's like,
that's like the whole old cosmology and shit. So, man, like, we got that, they got the regular little, uh, little, freaky, freaky characters, like the little, uh, The, uh, sunny,
they make a song, they share the swamp with his little Buddha pals and shit, and I got the, the circus shit, when I wait for the last brand, they share Marie ran that shit. They
blow my biscuits, my big show, I shit. Yeah, I said the one with the lion group on there with the, uh, Zion and the cub and shit, Tampo. That's going to be like the hero image and
shit. Yeah, that's like the most sophisticated version. This is like the most updated version, like the brand and shit. This is it. Oh, okay. Or, um, that's the good star, all
that. Okay. It's the brand. So then I have, I have another, um, I have another, let's see, I have the image of like, I group as, as the whole team shit. They got the whole, like, 9
different characters and shit. Right. So, like, your other, like, your other project projects that aren't Zion specific, like, well, he'll still be on there, like, type. Mickey is
a multimedia company. I don't want to say all those three-part century Fox owns, owns, uh, Fox, River Century, Marvel. So it's not Disney, it just, it's just how you deploy them
has to be things. So like Wonder House is Pixar. That's why some of my things you want to send out is lion, lion group slash wonderhouse. This is, this is, is the, is the arbiter.
Right. Okay. When they need to come under house bills, something, maybe something, maybe Meridian pictured, which is like the more like, uh, echo type of movies, an adult theme,
and it's maybe lying kids, which is what Zion will be under. Okay, gotcha, gotcha, gotcha, gotcha. I like that. So that's what I was in the last couple questions, like, where did
everything fit? Right. And then we, which is more... universally deemed, you have, uh, Sankofa, which is a wonderhouse movie, which is more culturally centered. I may not get the
most money as, uh, like dying out other characters, but it matters just as much. Yeah. No, it's the same thing. like more like the expectation for my lion film is like, yeah,
you're going to see a comedian's underrepresented in a way that's haven't been told before. And it's an equal value to, uh, so look at this, this is what, this is what chat did. I
sent to the lawyer or anything, but then they had aneurysm and shit. It's based on based on my movie, so I think that's crazy, so I'm like, uh, you know, shit, and it's all, shit.
So, as this is our strategy, when I come to me, it made me say, oh, like, Disney is why it's different between a Disney film. and a Pixar film. They both Disney and shit. Disney
Wired, Pixar, 2004, and Shared Fourth, Marcel Zing. But Pixar more adultine, um, and then Disney more universally, like Zootopia and, um, frozen music being played, Pixar, and it's
no music. It's like more like a sophisticated version of animation, but it's still she is centered. It's kind of where I'm at with, but I mean, take a step further, there was more,
um, of, of, of, like, um, deeper deans and telling stories from the, from the community is being told from and shit. So a lot of Pixar movies be like, even Disney movies, they
don't they don't touch it. They do anything princess in the frog. They don't trust black people to sell, so they make, make, make the bitch a frog and shit. Yeah. So I'm like,
yeah, I'd rather crate the railings, um, because I, I do, they got, um, river remembers, just like our little mermaid Brazilian movie, and I just target South America. they got a
100000000 black people here. Like a 100000000 black Apple Brazilians, like black people would ask them to identify Brazilians. Like, that's 2.5 times as much. You know, but a tired
bird. So I just do a movie that send it on them, but I get 10% of that at what I'm saying? Yeah, yeah, yeah. Right. That's why I'm like, yeah, you could you have something that can
appease to the whole world and shit. It's not, you know, it's only there under one thing to do that shit, fucking TB and shit. Like, you know. that type of shit, media. and shit
built off of that. Because you don't have to you don't have to be there or should do nothing out there, but put shit in movie theater and fucking stores and shit, you know? You can
put your presence out there. So I'm trying to funny his hands up, somebody, I'm pitching these two. I just sent you the other... Yeah, I just sent you them a room, what what chat
did and the style that I wanted to be done at. So it was... Chat made that whole shit like that. Holy shit. I prompted it to get something. Yeah, yeah, yeah. But it made the layout
and everything. That shit getting too good, man. It's like, you just like, we getting better with the shit. Right. Like, nigga couldn't get this shit before. I don't know. I went
to a whole of fame, but he nuked the shit. Yeah. So I'm like, shit, it's it. I've done her going to the, I cut the act in your mind. I won't. I them talk to myself. What I do like?
That's I'm like, I'm dinner. I got a cashing director already audio on board. This is my thesis shit. It's already not an issue. So, um, That's when I move forward and uh, No, it's
fired. My own shit cold. So this is, this will be, it'll be, it depends, because this is like Wonder House slash Meridian, because it goes, like, it is an enslaved person. So, it
depends. And based on what, because more so the main part of the story is, you know, guitars, they have to be, like, in this native tribe that they would just shapeshift and can't
do it. And so there's 2 halves of a person, his little panther spirit, uh, he, he, he was a native person that like was overzealous and his writer's passively had his brother die
because he was like being one of a head ass. We got banished to Rome, the forest in a swamp as a panther and shit. Can't turn back to unit. So they're doing that kind of 20 years
and shit. And he ran to his boy, who needs him because he has a special ability that the whole year. But he can't do it and nobody really helping him out. And then they'll achieve,
don't want, don't follow that nigga shit. So you had to go in the night and like train with the Brentwood Bro and shit, you know, when attackers come and find him, like so many
years and shit, because then they have to work together. And so we have to get redemption from his tribe. I stayed in a boy, deployed, deployed this redemption because he, the
pantry risk is like the same thing, so he's dead or dying. So yes, to kill him, the boys that kill the panther, to take him out of his misery and shit, but in doing so, he gains
the spirit of the panther because that's part of the maturation ceremonies. Like you go out to the wilderness and kill a piece of the field and then do a proper burial and even
inherit that spirit of sheepship. So at the very end, they come together and they become one being and the little boy, they'll be shapeshift until the panther at need and shit at
will. I didn't come like this, so, like, that's what that Maru is like, you know, the, the, the fugitive of slaves was, there was a floor. So it takes place on North Florida. Um,
And then so like then he runs away from the plantation and where my dad, family from and shit. is, um, so, So they was fucking on both of them. So I'm like, shit, that's we're
gonna do both. They fuck with the maroon shit because the action movie, they shit, we're doing that first. don't give a fuck. like it was ra My dad's side family was sorted, and my
mom's side never sorted. Yeah. If it's really who I talk to, women like the San Coco one. Niggas like the real shit. So it's like, shit, I feel like long is easier. I would say
easier, but it's, but it's more available for me because I did my research on this, on that world. Um, so I move forward, but I'm doing both films, so, depending on what niggas,
what, what niggas like? Shit, I got, got both options for your ass. I got, got some shit, my mind up. so that's what I mean is like I got to just do the work. Cause I ain't shit,
we'll take care of ourselves through distribution because I get I get 10,000 kids, and that's what I'm telling you with the school shit, man. For out. So I was an egg one on Friday
and shit. They was fucking like, yo, do this, and do this, deploy some projects where they asked. Work with a white fish to make the curriculum and shit and we get it right. It's
where it's ready to go with the OCPS in January or even fall. So I can get one school. Shit, that's more relationship. keep stacking. And just, and, and you curriculum, get paid
for that software, you pay for that for crown, uh, uh, goddamn valuation for for a brand. Get paid for that, leverage that, get more shit. And, 0 shit, I also do closing. I also do
media. You know what I'm saying? Yeah, look at that. way and shit, same shit. Man, I'm fighting in battle right now. I should have just fucking, man. I don't, no, I got this, this
snipe media shit going on and I, and I, I've been cooking up with that from our conversation, but I'm like, man, why, why don't we just drop a clothing around? Like, man, fuck that
shit, man, like, I mean, you can. It's all about, because I look at it as a 10 year player, are you willing to do take 10 years to do it? Like, or it wasn't make it be there, have
it be something apart for 10 years and sure. Oh, for sure. Oh, for sure. That's why I told this. It'd be cool. you do in LA, it's easier. easy to find different shit. And it's all
about what you want from it too. Is it better to just be a designer and have somebody else, handle a manufacture needs? I can send you a loop right now. It's probably the best
quality varsity jackets ever and shit. I got his number, I was talking to him this week and shit and shit. I was going to work with him. like, yo, yo, you do, like, white noodle
shit, because I don't want to do, I can do, like, do caption shit. I want do other shit. yeah, but I do all that. back. So basically Kentucky is some freaky shit. So that's that's
a plate right there. Yeah. like what you want and what what also, I mean, it's easier to make sweatshirts, but I don't, I really try to find, okay, what is something that like is
extremely quiet, so it takes a little bit longer? It's a matter of what you want from this shit. Man, I want to wear my own shit, dude. Like, I feel like that's the whole, whole
thing for me and shit, or obviously that's list levels to to do and all that detail and shit. But just think about what I want. I'm like, man, I've always wanted to wear my own
shit. Like, bro, fuck these brand shit. Uniqlo or my own shit. Like, and I'm like, I like Uniqlo so much that it's like, I have such a good example of material and shit that, you
know, just like good clothes and shit that I like where like there's so many brands that's like, you know, doing, doing nothing. Like, damn, they do be taxing, though, and it's
like, well, I know what it costs to make this shit. Um, you know, and I'm like, put my own, you know, style and touch on the shit based off of, you know, my my preferences and and
what I think about fashion and shit, right? And, uh, shit, you know, I think that should do cool. I know I know it's a lot of marketing and shit that goes into it, but I'm also
like, damn, can I have a just a, you know, online enterprise and shit, just fucking clothing the brand and shit. like, I don't see why not. Yeah, I mean, I don't know. I look at it
like what's I, if you, because it's always a, it's always a nigga willing to do the most. So I have to look at it, like, and willing to do the most, the most it takes to cut
through. I never want any type of easy way to do it. Because it's like, then it's like, then if you do it hard way, you, you're always in that lane. Right. You're willing to go, go
to different people, go to, go to this, do this in person, what? It's like, okay, that puts you in, in bleed of shit. So look at it as like, are you willing to do the most for
this? Because that's kind of what it's going to take to, to, to, to, for sure. Go and climb. call the idea right now and shit. shirts. What will make people care for this shit?
Like, yeah, I'm gonna go to every concert, know at somebody. Nah, no cat. Okay, okay. Yeah. Yeah. Nah. Yeah, nah, it'd be so many different little plays and shit that I'd be
wanting to further tap into outside of this photography shit, but I'm like, man, this photography shit got to do it for sure. Then I can do some other shit. Like, I don't, I don't,
I want to do some other shit just because I can and got bread to do it. Like, I'm like, this for this camera got to fucking make this money, though. Sure. I I mean, because I look
at us like, shit, every connection you make and shit. So I'm the, uh, photography, to be client, every, every person who does high-end street work fashion started off either being
a promoter, being an ex-connie US, type of socialite to where they just blame hat products. They just put on their famous friends, and now you have something of validation. So all
of that is you're eating all in the Jewish professionals, they can become clients. So that's, that's, that's, that's the hardest thing to get. Yeah. Yeah.. Yeah, that shit cooking
up for me. I gonna send you this shit. That shit won't explain. When I sent you, that shit, fucking everything, shit. That's just basically saying from the models that I shot and
shit, get a ass, one picture and shit. Charged after the rest of them, like, yo, what? I mean, I James ain't got do a little freak off and shit. Tell that bitch, yo. Hey, I'm
hosting a meet and grease slash photography session from 12 to 12 to 4. If you want to just come, pull up. You mean, man, it's always, I can beat anger, anger the ass shot, aren't
that? Right. And again, you meet them in both and shit. Yeah. Hmm Damn, I mean, I probably, and it's like, I always like to over, I like to overachieve and shit because I'm like,
man, it take me nothing to do these fucking pictures. these days, because, so, like, it takes me more, like, to figure out what the fuck I'm like, my shit is, then to actually take
a picture from, you know, raw to edit it and shit, you know what I'm saying? And it's like, and being that, it's like, damn, do I, does that mean, I dropped the price because it's
fucking easy as fuck for me to do, or like, nah, I charge, you know, when I charge this shit, damn, get less. It's still like damn near hit him over the head with the value and
shit because the picture is going to look a certain way, but it takes me nothing to do it and shit. You know? Like, yeah, you gotta see, you gotta, you don't seem like just
cheating and you ain't working. Hey, I'm like, yo, I'm like, man. And that's why I had work kind of hard and like trying to like get my my style, my preset, like, like make all of
that shit kind of so it's like, yeah, I really can fucking, from, I don't give a fuck what it is. I can change the color, the background. If I need it, fucking do some composite
shit, I can fucking send it to my, my, you know, Pakistani niggas, shit, you gonna freak that bitch, send it back to me and we good and shit. Like, I don't have no bottleneck when
it come to this, you know, creative shit. I'm like, yeah, man, I didn't want to just feed the streets or straight creative shit. Or, you know, with these new photos and shit. Like,
I don't know, you know, how far I could push them to the limit with maybe composite in or like, you know what I'm saying? Just like added some freak off shit in there. Um, you
know, but also giving them only, you know, listen, I do, I'll do them a better. I give them like fucking one each look or some shit because we did like 3 looks or like, you know, a
couple a couple each looks and shit, you know what I'm saying? Um, and then go, you know, go from there and shit, but like, do some freak off, uh, generation shit. It's like, Dan
could do the shit with chat. I can fucking put the put the shit picture and they'd be like, fucking make this shit in the fucking Hollywood studios, fucking lot and shit. You know,
some random shit. I should'll do it. So it's like, shit, dang, I don't even need a graph of this. I am no more. right. Yeah, so that's what I do. Yeah. Free, free, get one shot. I
mean, there's, like, a little mixture of meat. Yeah. It'll put up chop me there by. get more acclimated to the LAC and shit. Like, we know and shit, like... They didn't give other
people that wouldn't wouldn't be comfortable going by themselves and that skin excuse. Right. Right, right. Man, man, man. Yeah, I'm about to go to work on this shit because I got
a, you got some calls and shit coming up, huh? Yeah, I'm about to go, um, be able to do this downtown. I get some 3 feet, feet of platinum streets and shit. Those have a date, uh,
we'll see, she's trying to, I guess, I'm trying to decide if you want to come or not. But, um, she, she said, I asked where she could do it at 8 PM today. She's a teacher, so she
did up work at 245. So I guess he'll tell me then. I'm like, fuck all that way. Her beaches all that, beat the other bitch and shit. Well, yeah. I mean, it's, it's, it's, it's the
video for, no, on the studio and shit. And, uh, no, anime shit. Just the... Uh. So you, uh, who, uh, had text you and shit? Oh, blast? shit. His name is Christian. Yes, yes, yes.
That's the CEO nigga, sure. Nigga like, nigga here. Nigga big time, though, and shit, Forbes and shit. Yeah, that's all I'm trying to I'm trying to hit Forbes, but like, fuck. Man,
I ain't gonna hit the 30 under 30, but bitch, I need that 40 under 40 for sure. Fuck, man, I'm going to get that... Fuck that, bitch. I put that shit on my, on my, on my do list
shit. I can still get that bitch by. But, uh, well, it's hard. I didn't have to, you have to buy things by your submission, you have to be 29. So I think by status, the last year
some shit. So my bitch fought out for the plate. So what do you have to do to, like, like, is it just like the fucking ATL scoop shit you just or vote ATL Voyage, you just
interested in, fucking free on? Huh It's easier instead of the easiest path to do is by having somebody's already get it without food and shit. Mm, okay. So at the end of your
vouch right there and shit, we go. So I'm like, look at this shit. I know, I know, I know one nigga that, the photographer nigga, JPW, nigga, do all the celebrities and shit out
here. Bro, actually a sigma and shit from DMV and shit. Yeah, I got, um, I know 2 niggas and shit. I got the bitch I want, I took the picture with without all that riot, both that
video game, bitch. Yeah. He's a 30 and a 30 and then they got our homeboys and both in music. Good shit. But it's like, do you have to fucking, like, I don't understand what do you
get, like, like, how do you fucking, uh, get selected? you know what I'm saying? Yeah, I understand getting referred and all that, right? But like, what are you getting selected
for making money? fucking being innovative? Fucking, you know what I'm saying? Like you have to have a certain amount, like, followers and shit. like you know what I'm saying?
Like, what the fuck, you know, qualifies you, basically, for 30 under 30. time you get there, you would know, it's like, like, what's, look at what you do? Look at who got it, see
your field, because they have different fields in which you can acquire, get it. Look at what the last year's word did, you know, okay, stuff like, yeah, uh, they impact the city
in some way, world one out, shit, X Y Z, like everybody impact to their surroundings and high of high value. So it's like, I can, that's how I like, see, if I get to put the app
up, you goddamn plate. Have you straight? Yeah, he be straight. Let's see, evil, that's somebody with bro and shit. You got the little forge shit. He say started in like 2022 and
shit. He coming from business and shit. Yeah, and shit. Man. I'm like, if I could hit if I could hit, yeah. I'm like, I got the I got half of it done with the with the engineering
play and shit. I'm like, if I can get the get the promotion next year, hit like one, 130, 150 and shit, with the pay and shit, then it go crazy with the photography, 100 K and
shit. I'm like, man. You gotta give me 30 under 30, bitch. For that. I wanted to see who got it this year. Yeah, I'm gonna do some research on that shit. But yeah, I peeped that
shit, but I'm like, man, I don't know what goes into that. So just give me the 40 under 40. I'll do that shit. Fuck it. Yeah, niggas hit a whole bunch of people in the finance
people that like go to prison because they'd be getting that shit. I mean, you said they got motion, maybe doing fraud. Oh, wow. White people, New Yorkers shouldn't go, actually.
Wow. That's crazy. It's like a pipeline, it's like, it's like, shit, Illuminati and shit. Right, shit, shit crazy. No, yeah. So, yeah, you said that's something you're bored shit.
Yeah, I'm trying to meet you there, dude. Fuck it. What the fuck is my goddamn? Oh, fuck it. I've just been like 3 hours trying to find this little, this, this, this, this, bitch.
Um, I'm trying to find it. Gaming. Gaming thing for their thesis film. last dump i need to take this to the otehr chat Thought for a couple of seconds Yeah. Take this version to
the other chat. It keeps the signal, cuts the noise, and forces it to align around doubling down on what’s already working. I need to add one final real-world context dump before
we make decisions. The main thing I’m realizing is this: I do NOT need a complete overhaul. I need to double down on what is already working and structure it better. --- ## Core
Realization Every time I create a free or low-cost creative opportunity, it works. Recent proof: - I ran a studio shoot and got 25–30 organic submissions. - Multiple models, MUAs,
dancers, and creatives want to work again. - Some people involved have real proximity: entertainment, artists, high-level clients, brands, dancers, etc. - I already have people
asking rates. - I already booked paid work from existing relationships. - I’m now making money from photography consistently. - People like the experience, not just the images. The
signal is clear: The studio experience, my taste, my energy, my network, and my ability to make people look good are already creating demand. The issue is that the demand is not
structured yet. --- ## The Tension Free work gets attention, access, trust, content, and relationships. But I do NOT want to become “the free photographer.” I need to understand
where free fits inside the business model. The question is not: “Should I work for free or charge?” The real question is: “How do I use free strategically as a top-of-funnel
mechanism that leads to paid work, referrals, licensing, retainers, and bigger opportunities?” --- ## What Is Already Working 1. Studio days / creative sessions People want to
come. The environment feels good. The shoots create content and relationships. 2. Models / MUAs / dancers / creatives They want more opportunities and better content. Some have
audience, access, or proximity to brands/artists. 3. Existing clients / brands I’ve already had a swimwear brand come back and pay. This proves my rates are not imaginary. 4.
Network access My HBCU, Greek, LA, creative, entertainment, and professional network is probably a bigger asset than I’ve been treating it. 5. Experience design The shoot is not
just a shoot. It can feel like a curated environment: music, vibe, comfort, taste, people, production, and status. --- ## Important Strategic Thought I do not want to chase new
ideas just because I can. Photography has to become the main engine first. The camera has to make the money. Other things can come later: - clothing - media plays - Baseplate -
events - brand partnerships - education - products But right now, the strongest signal is that photography + studio + network + experience is already moving. --- ## What I Need
From You Help me turn this into a clear operating system. ### 1. Diagnosis What is the real business hiding inside what is already working? Do not give me generic advice. Tell me
what the actual machine is. ### 2. Free vs Paid System Design the system for how free work should function. Clarify: - what should be free - what should never be free - what gets
gated - where pricing enters - how I avoid being seen as the free guy ### 3. Offer Ladder Build a simple offer ladder from my current reality. Include: - free / invite-only
creative sessions - low-ticket or mid-ticket paid shoots - full personal sessions - brand shoots - event/BTS work - licensing or commercial usage - retainers if appropriate Make
the ladder natural and realistic. ### 4. Studio Experience Model Help me turn the studio into an experience, not just a place to shoot. Think: - vibe - music - comfort - curation -
premium feeling - community - social proof - repeatability How do I make people want to be in the room? ### 5. Network Leverage Plays Give me specific plays using: - models - MUAs
- dancers - artists - managers - brand owners - HBCU/Kappa network - LA events - people with audience - people with access For each play, explain: - who I contact - what I offer -
what I ask for - how it turns into money or leverage ### 6. Pricing Boundaries Help me set boundaries. I need clarity on: - when to hold my rate - when to discount - when to do
free - when to say no - how to anchor value without scaring people off Current rough rates: - around $275 for 1 hour - around $550 for 2 hours But I also have higher-ticket
concepts like $1,500+ premium sessions. Tell me how these should coexist. ### 7. Post-Shoot Conversion System After someone shoots with me, what happens next? Build the exact
follow-up sequence: - what they get for free - what they can buy - how I ask for referrals - how I ask for introductions - how I turn a good shoot into the next opportunity ### 8.
30-Day Execution Plan Give me a simple 30-day plan based only on what is already working. Prioritize: - current submissions - current studio momentum - existing paid clients -
existing network - upcoming events - content from recent shoots - direct conversations No new venture. No overcomplicated AI system. No abstract branding strategy. --- ## Operating
Principle The business should be built from this: Access + trust + taste + camera + studio + experience + network. AI can help, but it should not become the center. Help me build
the machine around the motion I already have. i lied one more after that one ill bring both responses back You know, about to run on fucking LinkedIn and shit, like, like, bro, I
dare never got a 1000 connections and shit. I told you fucking had like 500 fucking 2 months ago and shit. So I'm like, at any moment, I'm ready to fucking keep leveraging this
shit or like just, you know, it's a certain, it's like 3 types of post-damner, you're supposed to like, they're in a duo on this shit to, to like build that authority and like, you
know, all that shit. Obviously, people might not interact with it first, but they keep seeing that shit, you know, and you're dropping value and all that, like, and you're gonna
win and shit. But I'm like, fucking getting connections from everybody and shit. Like, all types of freak off, uh, founders in LA, you know, because I'm sending, I'm sending a fuck
a bunch of connections too. So it's like, damn, it's like, I want, that's what makes me want to use the link, like do the business side of things. I'm like, man, I got all these
niggas right here, the Turkish shit. crash. I on the ass and shit. So, and I'm commenting, you know, I'm like, I'm commenting on, you know, like their post and shit, right? To
where are they seeing me, my name, a page, all that freak off shit. So it's like I'm building, you know, building a community at the same time on LinkedIn on a business too. But
knowing that it's 2 different messages, you know, from LinkedIn to so like Instagram and shit, you know, and that's why it's 2 separate. It's really 2 separate things that I'm on.
Um, and yeah, like, like I said, it's like media, well, you know, the Instagram is more creative and shit. But LinkedIn is strictly business and shit, right? It has to be it has to
be a bit different for LinkedIn. So that's what I guess I've been working on, you know. Bonnie, these niggas... All right. New. Post this after the last one. This adds the LinkedIn
layer without muddying the main strategy. One more important channel context: LinkedIn is becoming a serious business-side asset for me. I have grown from roughly 500 connections
to almost 1,000 connections in about two months. I’m actively connecting with founders, operators, creatives, LA business people, and people with money or influence. I’m also
commenting on their posts so they keep seeing my name, face, and positioning. This matters because LinkedIn is a different lane than Instagram. --- ## Channel Split ### Instagram
Instagram is more creative-facing. It shows: - images - taste - shoots - models - BTS - creative identity - the Sniped Media visual world The audience is more: - models - artists -
creatives - peers - people who want to be photographed - people attracted to the aesthetic ### LinkedIn LinkedIn is more business-facing. It should show: - authority - business
thinking - founder visuals - brand strategy - lessons from shoots - how visual presence impacts trust, status, and opportunity - how I use photography as a business tool The
audience is more: - founders - operators - brand owners - marketers - executives - professionals with budget --- ## What I Need Help me design the LinkedIn side of the machine so
it supports Sniped Media without sounding like Instagram. ### 1. LinkedIn Positioning How should I position myself on LinkedIn? I do not want to sound like a generic photographer.
I want the positioning to connect photography to: - trust - visual authority - business growth - founder presence - brand perception - premium positioning ### 2. Content Pillars
Give me the 3–5 core post types I should rotate. They should help me build authority while still being natural to me. Potential themes: - visual authority breakdowns -
behind-the-scenes lessons - founder image audits - doing more with less - LA studio building journey - photography as business infrastructure - lessons from The Direction Stack ###
3. Post Formats Give me specific LinkedIn post formats I can reuse. For example: - before/after breakdown - shoot lesson - founder visual audit - personal story with business
lesson - one image + one sharp insight - “what most people miss about visual presence” ### 4. Comment Strategy How should I comment on founders’ and operators’ posts so I create
visibility without sounding thirsty or salesy? Give me examples. ### 5. DM Strategy When someone accepts my connection request or engages with my post, what do I say? Give me
natural DM scripts for: - new founder connection - someone who liked a post - someone who comments - someone whose visual presence clearly needs work - someone with a product/brand
that could use content ### 6. Bridge to Paid Work How does LinkedIn turn into: - founder portrait sessions - brand shoots - visual audits - content retainers - referrals Build the
path. ### 7. Weekly LinkedIn System Give me a realistic weekly LinkedIn operating cadence. Assume I have limited time because I work full-time. Include: - connection requests -
comments - posts - DMs - follow-ups ### 8. Voice The voice should be: - sharp - calm - operator-level - personal but not oversharing - business-minded - not corny - not
motivational influencer talk --- ## Important Do not treat LinkedIn and Instagram as the same channel. Instagram should show the world. LinkedIn should explain the business value
of the world. Help me turn LinkedIn into the business development engine for Sniped Media. This is the exact right pivot. You caught yourself before building an unnecessary second
engine. Your camera, your studio, your taste, and your network are already generating gravity. You don't need a new business. You need a monetization architecture to capture the
value your current momentum is creating. Here is the operating system to turn your studio into a machine, built entirely around your existing assets. 1. Diagnosis: The Real
Business Machine The real business hiding inside your momentum is an Access and Ascension Model. Right now, you are trading your time and studio space for raw attention, but you
are letting the financial value evaporate when the subject walks out the door. The machine you need to build uses the "free" studio session as a highly-targeted marketing funnel.
Your studio is the honeypot. The free shoots are your R&D and lead generation. The real business is capturing the network effects (referrals, audience arbitrage, and commercial
licensing) that happen after the shoot, and upselling the high-ticket packages to the business owners in their orbit. 2. Free vs. Paid System (The "Taste vs. Meal" Architecture)
You avoid becoming "the free photographer" by separating your time from your deliverables. What should be free (The Taste): Your studio time for highly curated, invite-only
