everybody you're doing it. Yeah, now you gotta do it and shit. So now you feel like you gotta do it. But I was like, I don't want to feel like I gotta do it if it don't make sense.
Like, if we don't have the right lineup, I don't want to do it. And I said, and I said, it would pain me to have to walk away after all this time. But I said, I think it would pain
all of us even more for me to force it up, and have the shit bomb, or to lose a bunch of money, and burn bridges in our relationship. Yeah. So, he just straight up, like, yo, he
said, I'm gonna be honest with you. He's like, Just you saying that alone is the very reason that we're doing this deal together. Yeah. He was like, he's like, You saying it? Just
reiterated to me that we chose the right partner. For sure. So he was like, so he was like, I appreciate you saying it. And he was like, Just keep me posted, and either way, he's
like, whether you do it this year or whether you want to do it next year, we're gonna honor the deal with you. He's like, We're gonna do the deal with you. Like, nothing's
changing. Yeah. So I called him today just to tell him, Hey, it feels like I could still pull this thing off, but the circumstances have changed. Probably not gonna be the same
headliner, so probably not gonna be so likely not gonna be the same ticket price. So I said, you know, instead of looking at a million dollars on ticket sales, maybe we're looking
at $600,000 on ticket sales. And so I said, I just want to be honest with you about that, because I don't, you know, I know the deal is based on a million. So he was just straight
up, like, Look, man, he's like, Yeah, it's not really what we agreed on originally, but he's, like, understanding. He's like, As long as you understand that we may have to adjust
the terms of the deal and reduce the money that we're gonna get you, then we'll still do the deal with you. He's like, at the end of the day, he's like, we're not betting on the
festival. We're betting on Calvin Perry. So I was like, okay. Bet. Like, appreciate that. So, if he, like, he just told me to date, like, straight up. Like, no matter what she do,
we gonna back you. So just make it make sense, and then hit us when you need to check, and we won't cut the check. It's just not over the same check. Because right now, bro, I
ain't gonna lie, bro. They cut me a $400,000 check. You know, and they already sent me 200. They sent me 200 in advance. So, where I was, what I'm thinking is, like, I'd rather
send them their bread back and keep the relationship. Right. then to just force the shit up, and then, 'cause if I fuck around and take the 400 and lose it, it's cooked. Yeah, you
don't want to over promise under achievement. You what I'm saying? Now they try to, you know, then they be trying to sue me yourself. Yeah. So I'm like, Nah, I'd rather just send
you bread back as much as I don't want to do that. You know what I mean? I'm gonna be sick to have to do it. Yeah. But I'd rather do that, and then we can still go hang out and
have dinner next week and be cool, and talk about 2027. So, just, basically, all I know is what's gonna end up happening. They're probably not gonna say send me to Brad back.
unless the New Deal is less than 200. If the new, they're gonna just say, Hey, we're gonna, you know, we already sent you 200, we only gonna send you another hour, however much
longer. So, you know, and that'll be that. Or they might say, yo, send us some of it back because we can't have you have all of it up front. I don't know how it's gonna work, but
we'll cross that bridge when we get there. Um, but yeah, they already sent me 200. So it's like, okay, that's why I'm like, I know I can book the shit, bro. I got 200 for deposits.
Right now. of their bread, not mine. You know what I'm saying? Somebody like Chelani, Kehlani originally, we sent her an offer for 300. She wanted 50% off front. So I was like,
okay, you want to send her 150 off front. So that 200 was gonna cover her deposit, cover some other deposits, and then the rest of the ship was just trying to come out of my
pocket, which I wasn't tricking on, because it was like, all right, well, if I got to be 50,000 into a show, this fucking, you know, about to make, I'd have been 100,000 into a
show, 200,000 into a show. So to be 50 into a festival is not, like, the end of the world to me. You know? I'd rather not be nothing into it, but, you know, what's 50,000 to fund
your dream? Right. You know what I mean? Like, I wasn't really tripping on it. By the time the shit go up and go on sale, I'm gonna get all my shit back right away. I'm getting
mine first. Soon as a motherfucker gonna sell, I'm gonna take my 50 out and I'm good. Put that back in the bank. Now I'm playing with house money again. So, you know, but so now
it's just different. So it's like, okay, no, because Kehlani didn't, like I say, she's cooked now. Because that went from 300 to 350 to 400 to 500. To now, probably not gonna
happen. Like, now they just non responsive. Like, okay, they just, it's out of here. You know what I mean? Like, you know, we don't have a half a million to give Shalani, your
600,000 or whatever it is, is going to end up in. So, it's just over. No, but they kind of playlist a little bit. What is yes and had us like, you know, they pretty much, they told
us they were gonna do it. We cleared the date for him, we sent the offer. We agreed on the terms, all that shit, then she got the Grammy, and then it was like, Oh now we need more
money. And it was like, Okay, that's understandable. Here's a little bit more. We gave her a little bit more, then it was, Oh, well, we actually need this much now, 'cause we just
got an offer from so and so. And I'm like, Oh, okay. So they're trying milk you dry and shit. It's like now I'm competing on some shit that was already supposed to be done. Yeah.
You know what I mean? It's like, and I get it. Like, it's the business, but I don't know, the way that I operate is like this, but it's how I feel. I feel like if a motherfucker,
if I shake somebody's hand and say, Okay, we got a deal for it. Like, if you say you gonna sell me your car for $10,000, and I'll offer you $10,000, if another motherfucker call
you about, Hey, can I buy this car? You gonna say, Oh, sorry, it's already sold. Right. So, you can't sell it again. Yeah, that shit. You know, now, if a nigga send you an offer,
you can't refuse, nigga send you 15, at least you give me the courtesy and say, yo, Cal, I know I told you it was sold for 10, but this nigga's offering me 15. Yeah. Can you at
least, can you at least match his offer? Because I, you know, you at least give me a chance to keep the car. Right. You know, you don't just go take the 15 from another nigga and
leave me leave me on red and say, it's sold, my bad. But that's kind of how they're playing it. They're not really giving us the chance to come back and stay in the game. So it's
like, all right, man, well then fuck y'all. So, it's either, we're just, we're probably just too far apart, like the other niggas could probably just offer so much more. Yeah. So,
I mean, it is what it is. It's just part of the game. Nah, that's crazy. Nigga, really got nigga in the trenches and shit. Yeah, yeah, but it be like that, man. So it's like we're
trying with Victoria Monet right now. She's rerouting her tour. So now it's like, she can only do certain dates, so it's like you end up having a shift again. It's like, fuck, now
we need to move from September to October to now looking at November. Now I start getting nervous because I'm like, fuck, do I want to be outdoors in November in Southern
California? Not really. You know what I'm saying? Like, it's like, you know, now we're dealing with weather risk. Like, okay, you might fuck around and get rained on. Whereas in
September, I'm not too worried about that. You know, it's still nice out, but in November, now it's a little colder at night. So it's like, ah, do I, you know, these are all things
you have to take into consideration when you're doing a show, especially when it's outdoors. If we were in an arena, I wouldn't even think, I wouldn't even think twice about it.
like it's indoors. But we talk about an outdoor festival all day. The weather, we can't afford for the weather to be shady. Yeah, we got to think about that type of shit. You know
what I'm saying? You know, we don't want if we not sold out, and we trying to sell tickets at the door. If it's raining, niggas ain't walking to the door. Right. You know, it's
cooked. And if it's raining too hard, now you're dealing with, do we cancel this shit? Do we postpone it? Do we, you know, what do we do here? So, Yep. So we're gonna figure it
out, but it's not, like I say, it's not in a bad place. I think it's in a good place. It's just a matter of like, Confirming the shit. Like, really, like, just, we just gotta at
some point make a decision, are we gonna go or we not gonna go? If we give if we give Victoria, we're gonna go. If we don't get her, we can still go without her, but do we want to
go without her? You know, or do we want to just, just call it? You know, like I said, I feel confident that we can go without all of them. Like, I'm happy with, like, Kewan's okay,
O'Deal, Sailor, Sasha, like, there's a bunch of acts on that level. Or, nigga, they gotta spend 300,000 on artists, bro. We could damn near put this shit together for 200,000. You
know, to 50,000 all in. And sell lower the ticket price and break even sooner. You know, and it's still a hell of a cool day. Like I said, it gives us somewhere to grow from. You
know, I mean, 5,000 people would steal 5,000 people. You know what I'm saying? Like, it don't have to be 10,000 people. Like, nigga, we get 5,000 people out in Orange County on a
Saturday on a beautiful Saturday, a sunny Saturday. that's a good day, bro. Like, man, that's something we can build off of. Just all we gotta do is get some really good content.
Put some good shit up online. Thank you so much for coming out. You can call the shit sold out if you want to. Right You know? Thank you. Thank you so much, year one. We be back
here too. Right. And then you go bigger the 2nd year, or you figure it out for the 2nd year. Man, yeah, shit, that shit. That shit wouldn't be a hit, man. Yeah. You know, and it's
like, bro, between my people, and and their people, and just the public, like, bro, we should, just me alone, bro, I could sell 100 tickets, 200 tickets. You know what I'm saying?
Just to my friends and family, like, all the niggas is, I know I can hit and say, man, I need you to get by 2 tickets for this. Like, this is the one you got to. I need those. I
could get 2 tickets. I want to sell 200. Yeah. So it's like, if them niggas, you know, between just on a personal level, like, I should we should be able to do this shit, bro. You
know, if I could sell 6000 tickets to Jeffrey Osborn, nigga, you know what I'm saying? Like, I should be able to move 5000 tickets for a lineup as a dope ass R&B artist. Some young
shit. Young shit with some niggas my age, and then that'll be the test too. Like, if I can't get my friends, if I can't get my homies and my girls to buy some of these, niggas
ain't really supporting like that. You know what I'm saying? Like, during a festival, it's a black old music festival. Come on, man, get you a ticket. Right. It's an easy, easy
sell for sure. Yeah, I would think so. So we gonna we gonna we gonna see about this shit, man. Like I said, I told the guys, like, let's just give ourselves a deadline on
Wednesday. You know what I'm saying? Like, if we don't get if we don't get some concrete shit by Wednesday from Victoria, let's just jump on a car and agree to move on without her.
And, and, and, and, and, and go with this other shit, bro. We can go. We got some, we can book fucking 15 dope ass artists from out, like a couple LA, and then you could throw like
some flashback shit on there, like, throw, like, Dom Kennedy on there, just throw a little throwback on there. Yeah. You know what I'm saying? Just throw a couple LA artists on
there just to make it, you know, we ain't gotta go with blast or nothing, but, you know, a nigga could throw on, like, Caitlin, for real, for real, or, you know, or something like
that. Something to bring the city out and shit. to bring the city out, too. You know? Find a little couple, maybe find a little R&B artist with Orange County that's coming up. Put
them on there. Okay. Boom. Now we now we got a little bit of some West Coast flavor on there. We got the R&B, the hot R&B shit on there. You got a couple dope ass DJs, you got Joe
K on there. You might find a little chick that could DJ. put her on there. Bro, all you gotta do is further is like, what you're doing is, bro, you solving the, you solving the
problem, right? Part of what you're doing is solving the problem for certain artists, right? Like, yeah, if you go crazy with the Kalani shit, right? Like, yeah, the only thing
you're doing for her is paying her and shit. You know what I'm saying? Like, you know, but if you if you niche it down to where like, okay, cool, the real intent of this shit is to
put niggas on and shit. Like, I'm giving you a platform amongst other, you know, niggas, that's probably, you know, maybe more stardom than you. You know what I'm saying? But like
you, you hear with him and shit. So this is your opportunity to go crazy and shit. And I'm giving you a safe space platform, break you off some bread or, you know, whatever,
whatever goes into it, but like the problem that I'm solving or part of the problem is, you know, I'm helping you with this distribution and people knowing you, exposure, you know,
et cetera, et cetera, et cetera. right? So, like, if you could, if you even niche it down, bro, and just get more specific to, like, okay, cool, like, yeah, we might have to sit in
this lane for a few years of just, you know what I'm saying, certain type of artists. You know what I'm saying? Then then we can go to the to the, you know, big headliners or we do
one big headliner, you know, every year and shit, like whatever. But like, I think it's a way that you could really commoditize it and like make it even more unique to your
experiences and background and grind throughout everything. like, yeah, man, like I'm doing this to help put niggas on and shit like, yeah, I want to make money and shit for sure.
But like, yeah, I could put niggas on in the process of helping other niggas too. Like, and it's going to be a fun ass festival and doing some shit. Coachella 2.0 and shit. Like,
nigga, you know, like, to me, that's what the vibe I get from it and shit. But like, yeah, if you can niche it down and, you know, think about that type of shit too, like it's
golden, bro. Nobody doing this shit. I feel like that's pretty much when it, because, like, I'm seeing it like this, bro, because, 1st off, you're right, bro. You spot on. And it's
like, it's an incubator. I'm looking at the shit like an incubator, because there's nothing that exists today in this lane. Okay? There's no R&B festivals for the young heads, for
the young heads. They got the old hair festivals, they got the essence festival, ass festivals, and all this shit. And it's definitely festivals that book R&B artists on them, but
there's no R&B headline festivals. So it's like, you know, and the ones that do exist, they're like old school R&B. Right. You know, it's Tyrese and Brandy and Monica just like,
you know, how many times can a motherfucker keep saying that shit? Right. That's not for us. Right, right. So it's like, but as far as a festival that is a platform for the young
upcoming talent, that doesn't exist. There's nothing for the Isaiah Falls, and the Isaiah Harans, and the Duran Bernards, and the Shane Harrisons, and the pennies and the Naomi
Sharons, and the Aaron Rays. That doesn't exist. So that's all this is. It's just a platform for upcoming artists, and it's a place to develop those talent, to develop those
artists. It is a platform for headline level acts. Right. It's for, it's like, the reality is, like, there is no festival that exists for Kehlani the headline. Right. She can wait
for a Coachella offer, but she's not gonna headline. Yeah. She's not gonna be the Justin Bieber of that motherfucker. Ah, she's gonna be on the fucking 7 o'clock slot on the 2nd
stage. Yeah. You know what I'm saying? And that's always how it's been historically. It's like, yeah, Mariah of Sciences is hot. She's super popping. But there's a ceiling for her
in the festival world. She can wait for a Coachella offer, that's cool. She might get a flog doll offer. That's cool. But she not gonna get a headline offer. Those slots are
reserved for Tyler the Creator, and Erica Badu, and Sizan. It's the same shit. So it's like, you know, for somebody like Kehlani, like it's a good look. It's like, this is your
headline play. And it's in Southern California. You know what I'm saying? It's home turf. California. You know, so, so, so, like I say, if we don't, if it's not there for us
already, then we just have to build it. Yeah. I don't have a problem with taking the stairs, and I don't have a problem with, like, if it takes us three years to get back to
Kehlani, then it takes us two years. Yeah. You know what I'm saying? Like, that's not really that long. Right. You know what I'm saying? Like, by the time a nigga be 33, they gonna
be booking a festival for 25,000 people. You know what I'm saying? But right now, it's like, man, you gotta start somewhere, bro. We trying to start at the top, but it's like,
nigga. Nah. That shit don't... It was make it too hard. to just make it make it harder to start and shit. It's like, I don't know, I'm just trying to start. Yeah, I'm just trying
to start. She getting my feet wet. Like, I don't need to go. Why are you trying, nigga? everything, you can't start. Nobody's just started the top. You gotta look through the whole
regular season. And you got to pay off. Right, right. And it's like, because and right when you get to the top, the 1st conversation is about the bread. Right. So it's like, nigga,
you got a motherfucker that's giving you $400,000. Nigga, don't go, don't go give it all to one artist. Right. Like, they can plant this shit out, make this shit work on this other
shit, like, and get creative and stop being lazy. So, because that's what it's, I told my man Dom, I was like, you know what the problem is? I said, as an independent, you're
forced to be creative. You're forced to get your feet wet, and your hands dirty, and you gotta move around. I said, But when you get to a certain level, when you become a big
promoter and all this shit, you get lazy. You're so used to just throwing money and shit and throwing money at props. Oh, when you spend 10,000 more on marketing, boom, spend it.
Whereas it's, like, on some shit like this, like, you can't just throw money at it and think it's gonna solve it. We don't have to get outside the streets and make the shit work.
Yeah, for sure. Like, this shit ain't gonna work if I just, like, on some real shit, even when the shit gets booked, like, I'm doing all this bouncing around and moving around, but
by the time I block this shit, bro, I'm gonna be in Europe. But there's a reason my shit is scheduled to be in Europe and not Asia or not Australia at that time. 'Cause it's still
closer to the time zone. That goes on and shit, yeah. So I could still work. Yeah. Like, I can work from London. I can't work from New Zealand like that. Yeah. You know what I'm
saying? I can work from, I can work from fucking Spain, you know what I'm saying? can't work for the museum. So, I need to still, I need to still be able to lock in and, like, get
some shit done on this motherfucker. So, um, and if I gotta come home and sit down for a month and and be in a fucking office every day, then that's what I gotta do, too. I guess I
know what I have to do when the time comes, like, I'll know, like, I don't know what I gotta do, and then I'll do it. But right now, I think, yeah, we kind of, like I said, it kind
of took tomorrow's a deadline on Victoria, and then if that don't play out, then like I said, I'm gonna go. I'm gonna talk to the guys, and if they're not comfortable with going
this direction with these smaller artists, then I'm just saying, look, man, well, you know, I gotta do this, man. You know, and I'm gonna just go ahead and do it, and then we'll
figure something else out for field trip, but I'm gonna do this thing, and I have to fucking call it something else, and I had to jump on ChatGPT and start coming up with some
fucking names. Yeah. You know what I'm saying? That's the part of shit. Having the idea, the idea, the unique idea is the hard part, bro. And that's why it's a roadblock. is there.
Like the bones and the structure of it is there. Coming up with a name, that's just slapping a logo on something. Yeah. So it's like, you did the hard part already and shit, and
it's like, that's what, the issue is that they didn't generate this part of the idea, so they don't really understand like, you know, like, bro, if you just get on with this shit,
nigga, this shit gonna be good. Like, nigga, it's a good idea, nigga. came from me. Like, nigga, that's all you need to hear and shit. Like, nigga, but you just never, you will
never, nigga, another nigga would never be as excited about your idea and shit. You know what I'm saying? So it's just execution from that point. all right, cool. Well, maybe it's
like, all right, y'all, let me take the lead on this one, sit back. Watch me do my shit. You know what I'm saying? And if this shit hit, like, nigga, nigga, you fall in line,
nigga, get the fuck on and shit. I don't, you know, I don't know what to tell you and shit, you know? Right. But like this idea, like, nigga, I nigga, this I know this shit gold,
nigga. like, you know? Yeah, and it's like, dude, I know it is, and I also know that, like, I'm not the only person thinking about it. Right. You know, at some point or another,
somebody's gonna say, Man, we should do that shit. So it's like, I've been sitting on this shit for so long already. Like, nigga, it's in the universe already. So... Yeah. You know
what I'm saying? It's like, it's been talked about. Like, yo, we need this. This needs to happen. Who's doing it? You know what I'm saying? They tried it with lovers and friends.
Yeah. And the niggas went big right away. Niggas went as big as they could possibly go. Mm. That's what I'm saying? That shit no longer, huh? That shit no longer, you know? The
last one for that was when I went to try to go to that shit, nigga. That shit got canceled. It was Vegas. Man, niggas was out there for this shit and this shit got canceled. They
say cancer for the wind, but, you know, because it was windy, but nah, that shit was losing money. Man, that was the last one. They're in there bankrupt and shit. Yeah, they went
bankrupt on this shit because it's like, the nigga that did is a nigga named Jeff Schumann. I know Jeff, 'cause Jeff do a bunch of, he do the same one that did The Fool of Law
Festival. him and my man Don Prieto. They did fool in love, and so far, with Lionel Richie, and Diana Ross, and Al Green. You remember that shit? Yeah. They did that shit in the
parking lot, and they only did that shit once. I asked him, I said, You gonna do it again? He said, Hell no. He said, all these niggas gonna be dead next year. I said, God damn. He
was like, It was now or never. Like, we had to do it now. And, you know, they also lost money, you know? But it's like, the niggas be trying to go so big, so fast, bro. Like, they
don't build nothing. They just, they just throw money at it. So it's like, yeah, okay, yeah, he's just offering every nigga on the lineup a million dollars. Yeah, you don't lose
money, bro. This shit not bad, this don't even add up, bro. You can do the math with a simple piece of pen and paper to realize it don't make sense. I don't know, how these niggas
get way up to the top and then don't know and forget how to do math all of a sudden, but it's like, bro, you spent 20000000 and you can only sell fucking 50,000 tickets and your
tickets at what price? Bro, you gonna lose? You about to lose your ass on this shit. What are you talking about? You overspit. Yeah, bro, it's super nice, bro. It just be simple
math, dude. Like, okay, you can sell how many tickets. You can sell $10,000 tickets. All right. What's the average ticket price? Okay, 100? Okay, so the most you can make on is
some ticket sales is a million dollars. So that means you should not be spending no $1 million on talent. 'Cause you still got a venue expense, so you take that out, you got a
marketing expense, you got catering expenses, you got insurance expenses, you got production expenses. Okay. Boom. You might be able to spend $300,000, 400,000 on your talent. And
leave yourself some room to make some money. It's like, it's simple. On this motherfucker, like, I'ma do them if I, if I, with the Kehlani model, I would have done a million
dollars in ticket sales, right? Mm hmm. I'd have done a million dollar, just over a million. I'm calling it a million, though. I'd have done a million dollars in ticket sales. I
spent about $450,000 on upside $500,000 on talent. about $150,000 on my stage reduction and all that which me I sp them out. 30 to 40 on market, which were landing with 310, doing
my catering, and there might have been a bunch of miscellaneous shit, but 200,000. Is that But now, but like I say, I'm just protecting a relationship at this point. Like, any
motherfucker, I want to get you 400 and they just betting on you, you better be smart about how you deal with them. For sure. $40 Yeah, no, any $40, 0400, 04000, or 40,000.
100,000. So that's the niggas willing to give me. That's the fucking... Things are the best. They've estimated you with you. Yeah, and that's the thing because they don't invest in
1st time festivals. They don't that'll do your professives. That's like, oh, see, that's a well-known policy for the companies. So when I 1st had the car, I thought it was a waste
of time. But he told me straight up, he's like, look, man, after talking to you, he was like, we don't invest in festivals for a year. He's like, it's way too risky. He's like, we
normally wait till you're 2 or year 3 where we see a proof of concept. He's like, but just based on our research and, you know, the conversations we've been having, he's like, we
just believe in you. He's like, so we're not looking at this site. we're investing in a festival. We're just investing in accounting cares. So just you just let us know what you're
doing and we're here and we'll back you. So he's like, but we still, like, we can't just give you a night check. Like, you know, how we can do it. You know, let us know if there's
a work. And I was like, yeah, this works. You know, but, um, you know, eventually I would like to get to the point where I can hit the biggest album. So, you know, I need a million
dollars. And couple miles here, you know, and just have them as my financial partner as opposed to like having to do with an investor and a motherfucker trying to tell me what's
doing, how to do it. I'd rather just have a ticket company that really, really just believes in the shit I'm working on and like, we'll pay for it. Yeah. So, and then, you know,
they just get their money back 1st, which is fair. Which is fair. I'll just build myself into the budget. So if I got unlisted expenses, just add my cell phone there as an expense.
Right. You know, and then they'll get theirs first. I'll get my little line item and then I'll still take my back in. And then I own the IPs and shit. So it's my ideas, this is my
IPs. They don't own none of that. They're just betting on me. So they makes some money. So, yeah, I'm gonna get this shit going, bro. I'm gonna do this shit, man. Like I said, if
they don't want to do it with the, with the, with the, with the lineup that I'm talking about, then I may just have to like have a really challenging conversation with them and
telling, okay, well, look, I'm going to do this thing in Orange County, and then we gonna figure out field tricks somewhere else at a later time, man, because I gotta go. Like, I
can't, after all this, like, I gotta go with something. For surely, bro, for sure. For sure. Yeah, I keep you posted on the shit. For sure, bro. Yeah, nah, it sound, you know, like
I said, I just try to throw in value and, you know, perspective where I can. I appreciate you for real, for real, man. You know, let's uh, before I slide on Saturday, what's your
schedule looking like this week? No, man, I got some free time on me. So yeah, we can do whatever. Yeah, we're supposed to smoke in it. man, it's different, man.'m wearing eagle
right now. Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah. Boston slide, I still slide over to you, bro. No, we can do whatever, kid. You know, let's get together, man. I'm actually getting ready to
go to a concert tonight, a comedy show at the Greek Theater. Okay. I'm going Jerry Seinfeld at the Greek. Man, I about to say, and I got another play that I wanted to hit you about
just like, you know, I'm trying I'm trying to go full throttle with this media shit. So, um, anytime I can get, you know, to a show to like, you know, work or like, you know what
I'm saying, just be around. I just, you know, my whole model right now is just like just trying to insert myself into different spaces and shit because, like, I feel like the
traction, everything I want is just gonna come from me kind of staying outside and shit, if you will. So, in leveraging you and, you know, kind of your space with the concerts and
the artists and shit, like, bro, if there's any time or any way I could get, you know, just access to to every, you know, to any shows and all that shit like that, bro. Man, that
shit would be all a nigga need. Um, for, you know, just trying to to get ahead and shit. Yeah. So yeah, any, any, anytime there is an opportunity or, or if there's a way that we
can set something up to, to get me plugged in and stuff like, man, just, just to work for free, I don't want no money for, you know, from nobody and shit. I just want to get some
content and shit. I mean, let me do this. I'm gonna get you with my guy, Marcus, because he does so many more shows than me. Mm-hmm. You know what I'm saying? got 5 shows a week
type shit. Okay, yeah, ain't downtown too, honey. The Novo world, different spots, but... Well, Marcus is like, he's doing a YouTube theater. This nigga doing everything now. Okay,
that, that, you know, so I mean, like, he'd probably be a better person just because he's always got something going on. For sure. For sure. And you guys have met each other
before, so I could just kind of redo the introduction. I can call them real quick and just kind of just, I could chop it up with them and just let them know, man. I just got, you
know, you know, she needs somebody, bro, I got somebody, bro. Don't go outside the family, bro. For sure. Like, look, till then, you know, tell, you know, and it's been cool with
real every time. So, yeah, hopefully he remembered me remembering me off name and shit, but like, yeah, bro, I dare never want to get next to her, bro. Like yo, just let me pull up
anytime and shit. That's I'm just trying to get some shit for you, nigga. If I could be of service to you anyway, let me know, you know, with the camera, video photos, videos,
whatever, like that's type of shit I'm trying to get. Let me do that then. I'm I'm gonna hit him I'm gonna hit him today tomorrow. I'm going to try him today, but he may or may not
keep right back to me, but I'm... for sure. And then, uh, and now I'll let you know what he said. Wait, since we've been on the phone, the chick said that she already sold the
Delta one. So it would only be the United American one for August for right now. Okay, okay, that's cool. That cool. I'll circle back when, you know, in another month or two. But
like, yeah, probably this summer I'll be able I'll be ready, you know, on the spot if it is some new shit, you know? Yeah, man, for sure dude. And then, and then, and then, yeah,
man, like, you know, it's just, bro, overall dude, things have been good, man. Yeah. I really can say that things have been good. I've been in a good headspace. Like mentally, I
feel good. Um, you know, it's crazy. Like, you know, you can, you know, damn damn near all my stress come when I come back to this motherfucker. You know what I'm saying? Right. As
soon as I came home, I came home to some bullshit, but, you know, but while I was gone, you know, a whole month, you know what I mean? I had no problem. Damn. So, um, but nah,
things have been solid, dude, and I'm just, I'm here to just enjoy myself for this little week. Like I said, I got the funeral on Friday. I'm actually tomorrow, I'm going to Janice
having a birthday party, so I'm going to a birthday party tomorrow. I about to say, how is that? I know that, you know, I haven't even seen the movie yet, but I know they are on
10. ain't seen it either, bro. So I kind of want to go see that. I may go see that on Thursday. Yeah, you got to see it before you before you see her. But you know what? She's not
even in it. She didn't really want to be in it or nothing. So, you know, I don't think she's a fan of the shit. So, I don't know if she see, I doubt she gonna bring it up. Yeah,
yeah. But, um, I know her phone been blowing up and shit, though, for sure. I said, I know her phone and shit been blowing up for sure. Yeah, the whole family shit is on fire.
because it's honest, bro, every box office record you can break. Right. You know what I'm saying? Still, this nigga's been dead for since 2009 and a nigga still breaking records.
Yeah, that shit. You know, shit is crazy. I think it was really, you can't tell me nothing, bro. This nigga is the biggest superstar in the history of the world, and it's not even
close. So, you know what I mean? Yeah, nobody do what this guy's been doing. So, um, but yeah, no, I'm gonna see her tomorrow. Uh, she's doing a little birthday party, and, uh,
Tarzana at Johnny Gil's house. So, you know, me there. So tonight I'm literally just going to a little comedy show. hang out for a couple hours and I'm gonna come back home, try to
get to bed at a reasonable hour and then tomorrow I'm gonna get up and go get a haircut and kind of freshen up a little bit for the party. And then after that, I'm going to get
ready for this funeral on Friday. I'm trying to get find a little I got a little soup, but I might have to take it to like a 24 hour dry cleaner and gives a shipping sitting for a
while. Yeah. Yeah. And then that's it, man. I'm chilling I'm out the way. For sure. Man, well, yeah, no, we definitely get up Friday, you say you leave Saturday or Sunday? I leave
on Saturday. Okay, yeah. standby, so, I mean, that could change. Yeah, yeah, yeah. Well, yeah, no, we get up. We can get up whenever, cuz. I ain't got too much going on, and my
lady got work all week, so I got plenty of time. What you doing tomorrow evening? Uh, tomorrow, uh... I don't got shit going on tomorrow. Friday, Friday, uh, probably green too.
Let me see what the... Yeah, next next week is a busier week for me this week is kind of kind of chill. All right, well, we'll play it by ear because I'm plugging in a few other
things. I know Friday I'm doing a funeral and then I imagine it's going to be some kind of a repast, but I don't know if that's now, I doubt that that's going to go all night. So
if anything, I could probably slide to you on Friday night. Alright, yeah, that's cool. I might be able to do tomorrow, but I just don't know what time the party's over. So that's
the only thing. It's during the day, it starts at like four. So I guess I'm assuming it'll be from like 4 to 9 or 9, but it might be a loose start and might start pushing it. I
start getting a moment. So, you know, I'll just tap in with you and we'll try to make it happen. For sure, yeah, just let me know, bro. Love you, man. All right, McDonald. All
right, love you too, man. holler. Yeah. All right, peace. Thought for a couple of seconds Yes — add this to the other chat. This is important context because it opens a whole new
access lane: live events / artists / promoters / venues. Use this: Additional context: I may have access to a major live-event / concert promoter lane through my network. A close
contact is connected to Marcus Don Dada Johnson, a Live Nation concert promoter in LA with access to venues, artists, shows, and event infrastructure. The possible play is not to
pitch as “a photographer,” but to enter as a useful visual operator who can help document shows, artists, backstage moments, VIPs, venue energy, and cultural moments. This matters
because: - live events create high-status content - artists and managers need constant visuals - promoters need recap assets - venues need proof of culture - brands/sponsors need
content - I can build access by being useful first - this could connect Sniped Media to entertainment, festivals, artists, and venue work I need you to factor this into the Sniped
Media operating system. Analyze: 1. How should I position myself when getting introduced to Marcus or similar promoters? 2. What should I say so I sound useful, not thirsty? 3.
What can I offer for free initially without becoming “the free photographer”? 4. What should I capture at shows/events to create maximum value? 5. What deliverables should I send
after an event? 6. How does this turn into paid work later? 7. What are the risks of working around promoters/artists/venues? 8. How do I protect usage/licensing if artists,
venues, or brands repost the work? 9. How does this lane fit with Sniped Media’s broader positioning? 10. What is the 30-day play if this introduction happens? Important: Do NOT
treat this like generic event photography. This should be framed as: - cultural documentation - artist/venue visual infrastructure - high-status access building - entertainment
network leverage - Sniped Media as the visual operator in the room Build me: - intro scripts - follow-up scripts - first-event checklist - shot list - delivery system - paid
conversion path - boundaries - licensing rules - relationship strategy Tone: - calm - useful - professional - culturally aware - not desperate - not fan energy And your actual
frame with Marcus should be simple: “I’m not trying to be in the way. I’m trying to be useful. If there’s ever a show where you need clean BTS, artist moments, VIP coverage, or
fast recap assets, I can pull up and handle it.” That’s aligned. You’re not asking for a handout — you’re offering operational value. okay cool so now imma take basically the whole
thread over to claudecode and do what lol Thought for a couple of seconds Yes. Take the whole thread to Claude Code and make it build the workspace, not keep chatting. Do this: I
am past strategy now. I need you to turn this entire thread into an organized Claude Code workspace for Sniped Media. Create a workspace structure with folders and markdown files.
Build: 1. /context - founder_context.md - sniped_media_positioning.md - current_business_state.md - network_assets.md - brand_voice.md 2. /operations - weekly_operating_system.md -
client_pipeline.md - shoot_workflow.md - gallery_delivery_workflow.md - post_shoot_conversion.md - crm_system.md 3. /scripts - instagram_dms.md - linkedin_dms.md -
client_delivery_messages.md - referral_asks.md - event_promoter_intro.md - pricing_responses.md 4. /offers - offer_ladder.md - pricing_boundaries.md - collab_system.md -
founder_reset.md - event_bts_offer.md - brand_content_offer.md 5. /content - linkedin_content_system.md - instagram_story_system.md - post_templates.md - studio_culture_system.md
