the other differently. Nakedness was created in the mind of the beholder. The second striking fact is that the woman is blamed and is punished by being made subservient to the man.
In relation to the woman, the man becomes the agent of God. In the medieval tradition the story was often illustrated, scene following scene, as in a strip cartoon. FALL AND
EXPULSION FROM PARADISE BY POL DE LIMBOURG, EARLY 15TH CENTURY During the Renaissance the narrative sequence disappeared, and the single moment depicted became the moment of shame.
The couple wear fig-leaves or make a modest gesture with their hands. But now their shame is not so much in relation to one another as to the spectator. ADAM AND EVE BY MABUSE,
EARLY 16 CENTURY Later the shame becomes a kind of display. THE COUPLE BY MAX SLEVOGT 1868–1932 ADVERTISEMENT FOR UNDERWEAR When the tradition of painting became more secular,
other themes also offered the opportunity of painting nudes. But in them all there remains the implication that the subject (a woman) is aware of being seen by a spectator. She is
not naked as she is. She is naked as the spectator sees her. Often – as with the favourite subject of Susannah and the Elders – this is the actual theme of the picture. We join the
Elders to spy on Susannah taking her bath. She looks back at us looking at her. SUSANNAH AND THE ELDERS BY TINTORETTO In another version of the subject by Tintoretto, Susannah is
looking at herself in a mirror. Thus she joins the spectators of herself. SUSANNAH AND THE ELDERS BY TINTORETTO 1518–1594 The mirror was often used as a symbol of the vanity of
woman. The moralizing, however, was mostly hypocritical. VANITY BY MEMLING 1435–1494 You painted a naked woman because you enjoyed looking at her, you put a mirror in her hand and
you called the painting Vanity, thus morally condemning the woman whose nakedness you had depicted for your own pleasure. The real function of the mirror was otherwise. It was to
make the woman connive in treating herself as, first and foremost, a sight. The Judgement of Paris was another theme with the same inwritten idea of a man or men looking at naked
women. THE JUDGEMENT OF PARIS BY CRANACH 1472–1553 But a further element is now added. The element of judgement. Paris awards the apple to the woman he finds most beautiful. Thus
Beauty becomes competitive. (Today The Judgement of Paris has become the Beauty Contest.) Those who are not judged beautiful are not beautiful. Those who are, are given the prize.
THE JUDGEMENT OF PARIS BY RUBENS 1577–1640 The prize is to be owned by a judge – that is to say to be available for him. Charles the Second commissioned a secret painting from
Lely. It is a highly typical image of the tradition. Nominally it might be a Venus and Cupid. In fact it is a portrait of one of the King’s mistresses, Nell Gwynne. It shows her
passively looking at the spectator staring at her naked. NELL GWYNNE BY LELY 1618–1680 This nakedness is not, however, an expression of her own feelings; it is a sign of her
submission to the owner’s feelings or demands. (The owner of both woman and painting.) The painting, when the King showed it to others, demonstrated this submission and his guests
envied him. It is worth noticing that in other non-European traditions – in Indian art, Persian art, African art, Pre-Columbian art – nakedness is never supine in this way. And if,
in these traditions, the theme of a work is sexual attraction, it is likely to show active sexual love as between two people, the woman as active as the man, the actions of each
absorbing the other. RAJASTHAN 18TH CENTURY VISHUN AND LAKSHMI IITH CENTURY MOCHIA POTTERY We can now begin to see the difference between nakedness and nudity in the European
tradition. In his book on The Nude Kenneth Clark maintains that to be naked is simply to be without clothes, whereas the nude is a form of art. According to him, a nude is not the
starting point of a painting, but a way of seeing which the painting achieves. To some degree, this is true – although the way of seeing ‘a nude’ is not necessarily confined to
art: there are also nude photographs, nude poses, nude gestures. What is true is that the nude is always conventionalized – and the authority for its conventions derives from a
certain tradition of art. What do these conventions mean? What does a nude signify? It is not sufficient to answer these questions merely in terms of the art-form, for it is quite
clear that the nude also relates to lived sexuality. To be naked is to be oneself. To be nude is to be seen naked by others and yet not recognized for oneself. A naked body has to
be seen as an object in order to become a nude. (The sight of it as an object stimulates the use of it as an object.) Nakedness reveals itself. Nudity is placed on display. To be
naked is to be without disguise. To be on display is to have the surface of one’s own skin, the hairs of one’s own body, turned into a disguise which, in that situation, can never
be discarded. The nude is condemned to never being naked. Nudity is a form of dress. In the average European oil painting of the nude the principal protagonist is never painted. He
is the spectator in front of the picture and he is presumed to be a man. Everything is addressed to him. Everything must appear to be the result of his being there. It is for him
that the figures have assumed their nudity. But he, by definition, is a stranger – with his clothes still on. Consider the Allegory of Time and Love by Bronzino. VENUS, CUPID TIME
AND LOVE BY BRONZINO 1503–1572 The complicated symbolism which lies behind this painting need not concern us now because it does not affect its sexual appeal – at the first degree.
Before it is anything else, this is a painting of sexual provocation. The painting was sent as a present from the Grand Duke of Florence to the King of France. The boy kneeling on
the cushion and kissing the woman is Cupid. She is Venus. But the way her body is arranged has nothing to do with their kissing. Her body is arranged in the way it is, to display
it to the man looking at the picture. This picture is made to appeal to his sexuality. It has nothing to do with her sexuality. (Here and in the European tradition generally, the
convention of not painting the hair on a woman’s body helps towards the same end. Hair is associated with sexual power, with passion. The woman’s sexual passion needs to be
minimized so that the spectator may feel that he has the monopoly of such passion.) Women are there to feed an appetite, not to have any of their own. Compare the expressions of
these two women: LA GRANDE ODALISQUE BY INGRES 1780–1867 one the model for a famous painting by Ingres and the other a model for a photograph in a girlie magazine. Is not the
expression remarkably similar in each case? It is the expression of a woman responding with calculated charm to the man whom she imagines looking at her – although she doesn’t know
him. She is offering up her femininity as the surveyed. It is true that sometimes a painting includes a male lover. BACCHUS, CERES AND CUPID BY VON AACHEN 1552–1615 But the woman’s
attention is very rarely directed towards him. Often she looks away from him or she looks out of the picture towards the one who considers himself her true lover – the
spectator-owner. There was a special category of private pornographic paintings (especially in the eighteenth century) in which couples making love make an appearance. But even in
front of these it is clear that the spectator-owner will in fantasy oust the other man, or else identify with him. By contrast the image of the couple in non-European traditions
provokes the notion of many couples making love. ‘We all have a thousand hands, a thousand feet and will never go alone.’ Almost all post-Renaissance European sexual imagery is
frontal – either literally or metaphorically – because the sexual protagonist is the spectator-owner looking at it. The absurdity of this male flattery reached its peak in the
public academic art of the nineteenth century. LES PREADES BY BOUGUEREAU 1825–1905 Men of state, of business, discussed under paintings like this. When one of them felt he had been
outwitted, he looked up for consolation. What he saw reminded him that he was a man. There are a few exceptional nudes in the European tradition of oil painting to which very
little of what has been said above applies. Indeed they are no longer nudes – they break the norms of the art-form; they are paintings of loved women, more or less naked. Among the
hundreds of thousands of nudes which make up the tradition there are perhaps a hundred of these exceptions. In each case the painter’s personal vision of the particular women he is
painting is so strong that it makes no allowance for the spectator. The painter’s vision binds the woman to him so that they become as inseparable as couples in stone. The
spectator can witness their relationship – but he can do no more: he is forced to recognize himself as the outsider he is. He cannot deceive himself into believing that she is
naked for him. He cannot turn her into a nude. The way the painter has painted her includes her will and her intentions in the very structure of the image, in the very expression
of her body and her face. DANÄE BY REMBRANDT 1606–1669 The typical and the exceptional in the tradition can be defined by the simple naked/nude antinomy, but the problem of
painting nakedness is not as simple as it might at first appear. What is the sexual function of nakedness in reality? Clothes encumber contact and movement. But it would seem that
nakedness has a positive visual value in its own right: we want to see the other naked: the other delivers to us the sight of themselves and we seize upon it – sometimes quite
regardless of whether it is for the first time or the hundredth. What does this sight of the other mean to us, how does it, at that instant of total disclosure, affect our desire?
Their nakedness acts as a confirmation and provokes a very strong sense of relief. She is a woman like any other: or he is a man like any other: we are overwhelmed by the
marvellous simplicity of the familiar sexual mechanism. We did not, of course, consciously expect this to be otherwise: unconscious homosexual desires (or unconscious heterosexual
desires if the couple concerned are homosexual) may have led each to half expect something different. But the ‘relief can be explained without recourse to the unconscious. We did
not expect them to be otherwise, but the urgency and complexity of our feelings bred a sense of uniqueness which the sight of the other, as she is or as he is, now dispels. They
are more like the rest of their sex than they are different. In this revelation lies the warm and friendly – as opposed to cold and impersonal – anonymity of nakedness. One could
express this differently: at the moment of nakedness first perceived, an element of banality enters: an element that exists only because we need it. Up to that instant the other
was more or less mysterious. Etiquettes of modesty are not merely puritan or sentimental: it is reasonable to recognize a loss of mystery. And the explanation of this loss of
mystery may be largely visual. The focus of perception shifts from eyes, mouth, shoulders, hands – all of which are capable of such subtleties of expression that the personality
expressed by them is manifold – it shifts from these to the sexual parts, whose formation suggests an utterly compelling but single process. The other is reduced or elevated –
whichever you prefer – to their primary sexual category: male or female. Our relief is the relief of finding an unquestionable reality to whose direct demands our earlier highly
complex awareness must now yield. We need the banality which we find in the first instant of disclosure because it grounds us in reality. But it does more than that. This reality,
by promising the familiar, proverbial mechanism of sex, offers, at the same time, the possibility of the shared subjectivity of sex. The loss of mystery occurs simultaneously with
the offering of the means for creating a shared mystery. The sequence is: subjective – objective – subjective to the power of two. We can now understand the difficulty of creating
a static image of sexual nakedness. In lived sexual experience nakedness is a process rather than a state. If one moment of that process is isolated, its image will seem banal and
its banality, instead of serving as a bridge between two intense imaginative states, will be chilling. This is one reason why expressive photographs of the naked are even rarer
than paintings. The easy solution for the photographer is to turn the figure into a nude which, by generalizing both sight and viewer and making sexuality unspecific, turns desire
into fantasy. Let us examine an exceptional painted image of nakedness. It is a painting by Rubens of his young second wife whom he married when he himself was relatively old.
HELENE FOURMENT IN A FUR COAT BY RUBENS 1577–1640 We see her in the act of turning, her fur about to slip off her shoulders. Clearly she will not remain as she is for more than a
second. In a superficial sense her image is as instantaneous as a photograph’s. But, in a more profound sense, the painting ‘contains’ time and its experience. It is easy to
imagine that a moment ago before she pulled the fur round her shoulders, she was entirely naked. The consecutive stages up to and away from the moment of total disclosure have been
transcended. She can belong to any or all of them simultaneously. Her body confronts us, not as an immediate sight, but as experience – the painter’s experience. Why? There are
superficial anecdotal reasons: her dishevelled hair, the expression of her eyes directed towards him, the tenderness with which the exaggerated susceptibility of her skin has been
painted. But the profound reason is a formal one. Her appearance has been literally re-cast by the painter’s subjectivity. Beneath the fur that she holds across herself, the upper
part of her body and her legs can never meet. There is a displacement sideways of about nine inches: her thighs, in order to join on to her hips, are at least nine inches too far
to the left. Rubens probably did not plan this: the spectator may not consciously notice it. In itself it is unimportant. What matters is what it permits. It permits the body to
become impossibly dynamic. Its coherence is no longer within itself but within the experience of the painter. More precisely, it permits the upper and lower halves of the body to
rotate separately, and in opposite directions, round the sexual centre which is hidden: the torso turning to the right, the legs to the left. At the same time this hidden sexual
centre is connected by means of the dark fur coat to all the surrounding darkness in the picture, so that she is turning both around and within the dark which has been made a
metaphor for her sex. Apart from the necessity of transcending the single instant and of admitting subjectivity, there is, as we have seen, one further element which is essential
for any great sexual image of the naked. This is the element of banality which must be undisguised but not chilling. It is this which distinguishes between voyeur and lover. Here
such banality is to be found in Rubens’s compulsive painting of the fat softness of Hélène Fourment’s flesh which continually breaks every ideal convention of form and (to him)
continually offers the promise of her extraordinary particularity. The nude in European oil painting is usually presented as an admirable expression of the European humanist
spirit. This spirit was inseparable from individualism. And without the development of a highly conscious individualism the exceptions to the tradition (extremely personal images
of the naked), would never have been painted. Yet the tradition contained a contradiction which it could not itself resolve. A few individual artists intuitively recognized this
and resolved the contradiction in their own terms, but their solutions could never enter the tradition’s cultural terms. The contradiction can be stated simply. On the one hand the
individualism of the artist, the thinker, the patron, the owner: on the other hand, the person who is the object of their activities – the woman – treated as a thing or an
abstraction. Dürer believed that the ideal nude ought to be constructed by taking the face of one body, the breasts of another, the legs of a third, the shoulders of a fourth, the
hands of a fifth – and so on. WOODCUT BY DÜRER 1471–1528 The result would glorify Man. But the exercise presumed a remarkable indifference to who any one person really was. In the
art-form of the European nude the painters and spectator-owners were usually men and the persons treated as objects, usually women. This unequal relationship is so deeply embedded
in our culture that it still structures the consciousness of many women. They do to themselves what men do to them. They survey, like men, their own femininity. In modern art the
category of the nude has become less important. Artists themselves began to question it. In this, as in many other respects, Manet represented a turning point. If one compares his
Olympia with Titian’s original, one sees a woman, cast in the traditional role, beginning to question that role, somewhat defiantly. THE VENUS OF URBINO BY TITIAN C 1487–1576
OLMPLA BY MANET 1832–1883 The ideal was broken. But there was little to replace it except the ‘realism’ of the prostitute – who became the quintessential woman of early avant-garde
twentieth-century painting. (Toulouse-Lautrec, Picasso, Rouault, German Expressionism, etc.) In academic painting the tradition continued. Today the attitudes and values which
informed that tradition are expressed through other more widely diffused media – advertising, journalism, television. But the essential way of seeing women, the essential use to
which their images are put, has not changed. Women are depicted in a quite different way from men – not because the feminine is different from the masculine – but because the
‘ideal’ spectator is always assumed to be male and the image of the woman is designed to flatter him. If you have any doubt that this is so, make the following experiment. Choose
from this book an image of a traditional nude. Transform the woman into a man. Either in your mind’s eye or by drawing on the reproduction. Then notice the violence which that
transformation does. Not to the image, but to the assumptions of a likely viewer. 4 CIMABUE C. 1240–13020? FRA FILIPPO LIFPI 1457/8–1504 PIEFO DELLA FRANCESCA 1410/20–1492 GRARD
DAVID 1523 RAPHAEL 1483–1520 FORD MADOX BROWN 1821–1893 MURILLD 16171682 GOIOTTO 1266/7–1337 PIETER BREUGHEL 1525–1569 GERICAULT 1791–1824 ECOUARD MANET 1832–1883 HANS BALUNG GRIEN
1433–1545 VENUS AND MARS 15TH CENTURRY PAN 15TH CENTURY ANGELICA SAVED BY RUGGIERO 19TH CENTURY A ROMAN FEAST 19TH CENTURY PAN AND SYRINX 18TH CENTURY LOVE SEDUCING INNOCENCE,
PLEASURE LEADING HER ON, REMORSE FOLLOWING 18TH CENTURY 5 Oil paintings often depict things. Things which in reality are buyable. To have a thing painted and put on a canvas is not
unlike buying it and putting it in your house. If you buy a painting you buy also the look of the thing it represents. PASTON TREASURES AT OXNEAD HALL, DUTCH SCHOOL C. 1665 This
analogy between possessing and the way of seeing which is incorporated in oil painting, is a factor usually ignored by art experts and historians. Significantly enough it is an
anthropologist who has come closest to recognizing it. Lévi-Strauss writes*: It is this avid and ambitious desire to take possession of the object for the benefit of the owner or
even of the spectator which seems to me to constitute one of the outstandingly original features of the art of Western civilization. If this is true – though the historical span of
Levi-Strauss’s generalization may be too large – the tendency reached its peak during the period of the traditional oil painting. The term oil painting refers to more than a
technique. It defines an art form. The technique of mixing pigments with oil had existed since the ancient world. But the oil painting as an art form was not born until there was a
need to develop and perfect this technique (which soon involved using canvas instead of wooden panels) in order to express a particular view of life for which the techniques of
tempera or fresco were inadequate. When oil paint was first used – at the beginning of the fifteenth century in Northern Europe – for painting pictures of a new character, this
character was somewhat inhibited by the survival of various medieval artistic conventions. The oil painting did not fully establish its own norms, its own way of seeing, until the
sixteenth century. Nor can the end of the period of the oil painting be dated exactly. Oil paintings are still being painted today. Yet the basis of its traditional way of seeing
was undermined by Impressionism and overthrown by Cubism. At about the same time the photograph took the place of the oil painting as the principal source of visual imagery. For
these reasons the period of the traditional oil painting may be roughly set as between 1500 and 1900. The tradition, however, still forms many of our cultural assumptions. It
defines what we mean by pictorial likeness. Its norms still affect the way we see such subjects as landscape, women, food, dignitaries, mythology. It supplies us with our
archetypes of ‘artistic genius’. And the history of the tradition, as it is usually taught, teaches us that art prospers if enough individuals in society have a love of art. What
is a love of art? Let us consider a painting which belongs to the tradition whose subject is an art lover. ARCHDUKE LEOPOLD WILHELIV IN HIS PRIVATE PICTURE GALLERY BY TENIERS
1582–1649 What does it show? The sort of man in the seventeenth century for whom painters painted their paintings. What are these paintings? Before they are anything else, they are
themselves objects which can be bought and owned. Unique objects. A patron cannot be surrounded by music or poems in the same way as he is surrounded by his pictures. It is as
though the collector lives in a house built of paintings. What is their advantage over walls of stone or wood? They show him sights: sights of what he may possess. Again,
Lévi-Strauss comments on how a collection of paintings can confirm the pride and amour-propre of the collector. For Renaissance artists, painting was perhaps an instrument of
knowledge but it was also an instrument of possession, and we must not forget when we are dealing with Renaissance painting, that it was only possible because of the immense
fortunes which were being amassed in Florence and elsewhere, and that rich Italian merchants looked upon painters as agents, who allowed them to confirm their possession of all
that was beautiful and desirable in the world. The pictures in a Florentine palace represented a kind of microcosm in which the proprietor, thanks to his artists, had recreated
within easy reach and in as real a form as possible, all those features of the world to which he was attached. PICTURE GALLERY OF CARDINAL VALENTI GONZAGA BY PANINI 1692–1765/8 The
art of any period tends to serve the ideological interests of the ruling class. If we were simply saying that European art between 1500 and 1900 served the interests of the
successive ruling classes, all of whom depended in different ways on the new power of capital, we should not be saying anything very new. What is being proposed is a little more
precise; that a way of seeing the world, which was ultimately determined by new attitudes to property and exchange, found its visual expression in the oil painting, and could not
have found it in any other visual art form. INTERIOR OF AN ART GALLERY, FLEMISH 17TH CENTURY Oil painting did to appearances what capital did to social relations. It reduced
everything to the equality of objects. Everything became exchangeable because everything became a commodity. All reality was mechanically measured by its materiality. The soul,
thanks to the Cartesian system, was saved in a category apart. A painting could speak to the soul – by way of what it referred to, but never by the way it envisaged. Oil painting
conveyed a vision of total exteriority. Pictures immediately spring to mind to contradict this assertion. Works by Rembrandt, EI Greco, Giorgione, Vermeer, Turner, etc. Yet if one
studies these works in relation to the tradition as a whole, one discovers that they were exceptions of a very special kind. The tradition consisted of many hundreds of thousands
of canvases and easel pictures distributed throughout Europe. A great number have not survived. Of those which have survived only a small fraction are seriously treated today as
works of fine art, and of this fraction another small fraction comprises the actual pictures repeatedly reproduced and presented as the work of ‘the masters’. Visitors to art
museums are often overwhelmed by the number of works on display, and by what they take to be their own culpable inability to concentrate on more than a few of these works. In fact
such a reaction is altogether reasonable. Art history has totally failed to come to terms with the problem of the relationship between the outstanding work and the average work of
the European tradition. The notion of Genius is not in itself an adequate answer. Consequently the confusion remains on the walls of the galleries. Third-rate works surround an
outstanding work without any recognition – let alone explanation – of what fundamentally differentiates them. The art of any culture will show a wide differential of talent. But in
no other culture is the difference between ‘masterpiece’ and average work so large as in the tradition of the oil painting. In this tradition the difference is not just a question
of skill or imagination, but also of morale. The average work – and increasingly after the seventeenth century – was a work produced more or less cynically: that is to say the
values it was nominally expressing were less meaningful to the painter than the finishing of the commission or the selling of his product. Hack work is not the result of either
clumsiness or provincialism; it is the result of the market making more insistent demands than the art. The period of the oil painting corresponds with the rise of the open art
market. And it is in this contradiction between art and market that the explanations must be sought for what amounts to the contrast, the antagonism existing between the
exceptional work and the average. Whilst acknowledging the existence of the exceptional works, to which we shall return later, let us first look broadly at the tradition. What
distinguishes oil painting from any other form of painting is its special ability to render the tangibility, the texture, the lustre, the solidity of what it depicts. It defines
the real as that which you can put your hands on. Although its painted images are two-dimensional, its potential of illusionism is far greater than that of sculpture, for it can
suggest objects possessing colour, texture and temperature, filling a space and, by implication, filling the entire world. Holbein’s painting of The Ambassadors (1533) stands at
the beginning of the tradition and, as often happens with a work at the opening of a new period, its character is undisguised. The way it is painted shows what it is about. How is
it painted? THE AMBASSADORS BY HOLBEIN 1497/8–1543 It is painted with great skill to create the illusion in the spectator that he is looking at real objects and materials. We
pointed out in the first essay that the sense of touch was like a restricted, static sense of sight. Every square inch of the surface of this painting, whilst remaining purely
visual, appeals to, importunes, the sense of touch. The eye moves from fur to silk to metal to wood to velvet to marble to paper to felt, and each time what the eye perceives is
already translated, within the painting itself, into the language of tactile sensation. The two men have a certain presence and there are many objects which symbolize ideas, but it
is the materials, the stuff, by which the men are surrounded and clothed which dominate the painting. Except for the faces and hands, there is not a surface in this picture which
does not make one aware of how it has been elaborately worked over – by weavers, embroiderers, carpet-makers, goldsmiths, leather workers, mosaic-makers, furriers, tailors,
jewellers – and of how this working-over and the resulting richness of each surface has been finally worked-over and reproduced by Holbein the painter. This emphasis and the skill
that lay behind it was to remain a constant of the tradition of oil painting. Works of art in earlier traditions celebrated wealth. But wealth was then a symbol of a fixed social
or divine order. Oil painting celebrated a new kind of wealth – which was dynamic and which found its only sanction in the supreme buying power of money. Thus painting itself had
to be able to demonstrate the desirability of what money could buy. And the visual desirability of what can be bought lies in its tangibility, in how it will reward the touch, the
hand, of the owner. In the foreground of Holbein’s Ambassadors there is a mysterious, slanting, oval form. This represents a highly distorted skull: a skull as it might be seen in
a distorting mirror. There are several theories about how it was painted and why the ambassadors wanted it put there. But all agree that it was a kind of memento mori: a play on
the medieval idea of using a skull as a continual reminder of the presence of death. What is significant for our argument is that the skull is painted in a (literally) quite
different optic from everything else in the picture. If the skull had been painted like the rest, its metaphysical implication would have disappeared; it would have become an
object like everything else, a mere part of a mere skeleton of a man who happened to be dead. This was a problem which persisted throughout the tradition. When metaphysical symbols
are introduced (and later there were painters who, for instance, introduced realistic skulls as symbols of death), their symbolism is usually made unconvincing or unnatural by the
unequivocal, static materialism of the painting-method. VANITY BY DE POORTER 1608–1648 It is the same contradiction which makes the average religious painting of the tradition
appear hypocritical. The claim of the theme is made empty by the way the subject is painted. The paint cannot free itself of its original propensity to procure the tangible for the
immediate pleasure of the owner. Here, for example, are three paintings of Mary Magdalene. THE MAGDALEN READING STUDIO OF AMBROSIUS BENSON, ACTIVE 1519–1550 MARY MAGDALENE BY VAN
DER WERFF 1659–1722 THE PENITENT MAGDALEN BY BAUDRY, SALON OF 1859 The point of her story is that she so loved Christ that she repented of her past and came to accept the mortality
of flesh and the immortality of the soul. Yet the way the pictures are painted contradicts the essence of this story. It is as though the transformation of her life brought about
by her repentance has not taken place. The method of painting is incapable of making the renunciation she is meant to have made. She is painted as being, before she is anything
else, a takeable and desirable woman. She is still the compliant object of the painting-method’s seduction. It is interesting to note here the exceptional case of William Blake. As
a draughtsman and engraver Blake learnt according to the rules of the tradition. But when he came to make paintings, he very seldom used oil paint and, although he still relied
upon the traditional conventions of drawing, he did everything he could to make his figures lose substance, to become transparent and indeterminate one from the other, to defy
gravity, to be present but intangible, to glow without a definable surface, not to be reducible to objects. ILLUSTRATION TO DANTE’S DIVINE COMEDY BY BLAKE 1757–1827 This wish of
Blake’s to transcend the ‘substantiality’ of oil paint derived from a deep insight into the meaning and limitations of the tradition. Let us now return to the two ambassadors, to
their presence as men. This will mean reading the painting differently: not at the level of what it shows within its frame, but at the level of what it refers to outside it. THE
AMBASSADORS BY HOLBEIN 1497/8–1543 The two men are confident and formal; as between each other they are relaxed. But how do they look at the painter – or at us? There is in their
gaze and their stance a curious lack of expectation of any recognition. It is as though in principle their worth cannot be recognized by others. They look as though they are
looking at something of which they are not part. At something which surrounds them but from which they wish to exclude themselves. At the best it may be a crowd honouring them; at
the worst, intruders. What were the relations of such men with the rest of the world? The painted objects on the shelves between them were intended to supply – to the few who could
read the allusions – a certain amount of information about their position in the world. Four centuries later we can interpret this information according to our own perspective. The
scientific instruments on the top shelf were for navigation. This was the time when the ocean trade routes were being opened up for the slave trade and for the traffic which was to
siphon the riches from other continents into Europe, and later supply the capital for the take-off of the Industrial Revolution. In 1519 Magellan had set out, with the backing of
Charles V, to sail round the world. He and an astronomer friend, with whom he had planned the voyage, arranged with the Spanish court that they personally were to keep twenty per
cent of the profits made, and the right to run the government of any land they conquered. The globe on the bottom shelf is a new one which charts this recent voyage of Magellan’s.
Holbein has added to the globe the name of the estate in France which belonged to the ambassador on the left. Beside the globe are a book of arithmetic, a hymn book and a lute. To
colonize a land it was necessary to convert its people to Christianity and accounting, and thus to prove to them that European civilization was the most advanced in the world. Its
art included. ADMIRAL DE RUYTER IN THE CASTLE OF ELMINA BY DE WITTE 1617–1692 The African kneels to hold up an oil painting to his master. The painting depicts the castle above one
of the principal centres of the West African slave trade. How directly or not the two ambassadors were involved in the first colonizing ventures is not particularly important, for
what we are concerned with here is a stance towards the world; and this was general to a whole class. The two ambassadors belonged to a class who were convinced that the world was
there to furnish their residence in it. In its extreme form this conviction was confirmed by the relations being set up between colonial conqueror and the colonized. INDIA OFFERING
HER PEARLS TO BRITANNIA 18TH CENTURE These relations between conqueror and colonized tended to be self-perpetuating. The sight of the other confirmed each in his inhuman estimate
of himself. The circularity of the relationship can be seen in the following diagram – as also the mutual solitude. The way in which each sees the other confirms his own view of
himself. The gaze of the ambassadors is both aloof and wary. They expect no reciprocity. They wish the image of their presence to impress others with their vigilance and their
distance. The presence of kings and emperors had once impressed in a similar way, but their images had been comparatively impersonal. What is new and disconcerting here is the
individualized presence which needs to suggest distance. Individualism finally posits equality. Yet equality must be made inconceivable. The conflict again emerges in the
painting-method. The surface verisimilitude of oil painting tends to make the viewer assume that he is close to – within touching distance of – any object in the foreground of the
picture. If the object is a person such proximity implies a certain intimacy. FERDINAND THE SECOND OF TUSCANY AND VITTORIA DELLA ROVERE BY SUTTERMANS 1597–1681 Yet the painted
public portrait must insist upon a formal distance. It is this – and not technical inability on the part of the painter – which makes the average portrait of the tradition appear
stiff and rigid. The artificiality is deep within its own terms of seeing, because the subject has to be seen simultaneously from close-to and from afar. The analogy is with
specimens under a microscope. They are there in all their particularity and we can study them, but it is impossible to imagine them considering us in a similar way. MR AND MRS
WILLIAM ATHERTON BY DEVIS 1711–1787 The formal portrait, as distinct from the self-portrait or the informal portrait of the painter’s friend never resolved this problem. But as the
tradition continued, the painting of the sitter’s face became more and more generalized. THE BEAUMONT FAMILY BY ROMNEY 1734–1802 His features became the mask which went with the
costume. Today the final stage of this development can be seen in the puppet tv appearance of the average politician. Let us now briefly look at some of the genres of oil painting
– categories of painting which were part of its tradition but exist in no other. Before the tradition of oil painting, medieval painters often used gold-leaf in their pictures.
Later gold disappeared from paintings and was only used for their frames. Yet many oil paintings were themselves simple demonstrations of what gold or money could buy. Merchandise
became the actual subject-matter of works of art. STILL LIFE WITH A LOBSTER BY DE HEEM 1606–1684 Here the edible is made visible. Such a painting is a demonstration of more than
the virtuosity of the artist. It confirms the owner’s wealth and habitual style of living. Paintings of animals. Not animals in their natural condition, but livestock whose
pedigree is emphasized as a proof of their value, and whose pedigree emphasizes the social status of their owners. (Animals painted like pieces of furniture with four legs.)
LINCOLNSHIRE OX BY STUBBS 1724–1806 Paintings of objects. Objects which, significantly enough, became known as objets d’art. STILL LIFE ASCRIBED TO CLAESZ 1596/7–1661 Paintings of
buildings – buildings not considered as ideal works of architecture, as in the work of some early Renaissance artists – but buildings as a feature of landed property. CHARLES II
BEING PRESENTED WITH A PINEAPPLE BY ROSE THE ROYAL GARDENER BY HEWART AFTER DANCKERTS C.1630–1678/9 The highest category in oil painting was the history or mythological picture. A
painting of Greek or ancient figures was automatically more highly esteemed than a still-life, a portrait or a landscape. Except for certain exceptional works in which the
painter’s own personal lyricism was expressed, these mythological paintings strike us today as the most vacuous of all. They are like tired tableaux in wax that won’t melt. Yet
their prestige and their emptiness were directly connected. MR TOWNELEY AND FRIENDS BY ZOFFANY 1734/5–1810 TRIUMPH OF KNOWLEDGE BY SPRANGER 1546–1627 Until very recently – and in
certain milieux even today – a certain moral value was ascribed to the study of the classics. This was because the classic texts, whatever their intrinsic worth, supplied the
higher strata of the ruling class with a system of references for the forms of their own idealized behaviour. As well as poetry, logic and philosophy, the classics offered a system
