of etiquette. They offered examples of how the heightened moments of life – to be found in heroic action, the dignified exercise of power, passion, courageous death, the noble
pursuit of pleasure – should be lived, or, at least, should be seen to be lived. Yet why are these pictures so vacuous and so perfunctory in their evocation of the scenes they are
meant to recreate? They did not need to stimulate the imagination. If they had, they would have served their purpose less well. Their purpose was not to transport their
spectator-owners into new experience, but to embellish such experience as they already possessed. Before these canvases the spectator-owner hoped to see the classic face of his own
passion or grief or generosity. The idealized appearances he found in the painting were an aid, a support, to his own view of himself. In those appearances he found the guise of
his own (or his wife’s or his daughters’) nobility. Sometimes the borrowing of the classic guise was simple, as in Reynolds’s painting of the daughters of the family dressed up as
Graces decorating Hymen. TRIUMPH OF KNOWLEDGE BY SPRANGER 1546–1627 Sometimes the whole mythological scene functions like a garment held out for the spectator-owner to put his arms
into and wear. The fact that the scene is substantial, and yet, behind its substantiality, empty, facilitates the ‘wearing’ of it. OSSIAN RECEIVING NAPOLEON’S MARSHALLS IN VALHALLA
BY GIRODET 1767/1824 The so-called ‘genre’ picture – the picture of ‘low life’ – was thought of as the opposite of the mythological picture. It was vulgar instead of noble. The
purpose of the ‘genre’ picture was to prove – either positively or negatively – that virtue in this world was rewarded by social and financial success. Thus, those who could afford
to buy these pictures – cheap as they were – had their own virtue confirmed. Such pictures were particularly popular with the newly arrived bourgeoisie who identified themselves
not with the characters painted but with the moral which the scene illustrated. Again, the faculty of oil paint to create the illusion of substantiality lent plausibility to a
sentimental lie: namely that it was the honest and hard-working who prospered, and that the good-for-nothings deservedly had nothing. TAVERN SCENE BY BROUWER 1605–1638 Adriaen
Brouwer was the only exceptional ‘genre’ painter. His pictures of cheap taverns and those who ended up in them, are painted with a bitter and direct realism which precludes
sentimental moralizing. As a result his pictures were never bought – except by a few other painters such as Rembrandt and Rubens. The average ‘genre’ painting – even when painted
by a ‘master’ like Hals – was very different. LAUGHING FISHERBOY BY HALS 1580–1666 FISHERBOY BY HALS 1580–1666 These people belong to the poor. The poor can be seen in the street
outside or in the countryside. Pictures of the poor inside the house, however, are reassuring. Here the painted poor smile as they offer what they have for sale. (They smile
showing their teeth, which the rich in pictures never do.) They smile at the better-off – to ingratiate themselves, but also at the prospect of a sale or a job. Such pictures
assert two things: that the poor are happy, and that the better-off are a source of hope for the world. Landscape, of all the categories of oil painting, is the one to which our
argument applies least. AN EXTENSIVE LANDSCAPE WITH RUINS BY RUISDAEL 1628/9–1682 Prior to the recent interest in ecology, nature was not thought of as the object of the activities
of capitalism; rather it was thought of as the arena in which capitalism and social life and each individual life had its being. Aspects of nature were objects of scientific study,
but nature-as-a-whole defied possession. RIVER SCENE WITH FISHERMEN LANDING A NET BY VAN GOYEN 1596–1656 One might put this even more simply. The sky has no surface and is
intangible; the sky cannot be turned into a thing or given a quantity. And landscape painting begins with the problem of painting sky and distance. The first pure landscapes –
painted in Holland in the seventeenth century – answered no direct social need. (As a result Ruysdael starved and Hobbema had to give up.) Landscape painting was, from its
inception, a relatively independent activity. Its painters naturally inherited and so, to a large extent, were forced to continue the methods and norms of the tradition. But each
time the tradition of oil painting was significantly modified, the first initiative came from landscape painting. From the seventeenth century onwards the exceptional innovators in
terms of vision and therefore technique were Ruysdael, Rembrandt (the use of light in his later work derived from his landscape studies), Constable (in his sketches), Turner and,
at the end of the period, Monet and the Impressionists. Furthermore, their innovations led progressively away from the substantial and tangible towards the indeterminate and
intangible. Nevertheless the special relation between oil painting and property did play a certain role even in the development of landscape painting. Consider the well-known
example of Gainsborough’s Mr and Mrs Andrews. MR AND MRS ANDREWS BY GAINSBOROUGH 1727–1788 Kenneth Clark* has written about Gainsborough and this canvas: At the very beginning of
his career his pleasure in what he saw inspired him to put into his pictures backgrounds as sensitively observed as the corn-field in which are seated Mr and Mrs Andrews. This
enchanting work is painted with such love and mastery that we should have expected Gainsborough to go further in the same direction; but he gave up direct painting, and evolved the
melodious style of picture-making by which he is best known. His recent biographers have thought that the business of portrait painting left him no time to make studies from
nature, and they have quoted his famous letter about being ‘sick of portraits and wishing to take his Viol de Gamba and walk off to some sweet village where he can paint
landscips’, to support the view that he would have been a naturalistic landscape painter if he had had the opportunity. But the Viol de Gamba letter is only part of Gainsborough’s
Rousseauism. His real opinions on the subject are contained in a letter to a patron who had been so simple as to ask him for a painting of his park: ‘Mr Gainsborough presents his
humble respects to Lord Hardwicke, and shall always think it an honour to be employed in anything for His Lordship; but with regard to real views from Nature in this country, he
has never seen any place that affords a subject equal to the poorest imitations of Gaspar or Claude.’ Why did Lord Hardwicke want a picture of his park? Why did Mr and Mrs Andrews
commission a portrait of themselves with a recognizable landscape of their own land as background? They are not a couple in Nature as Rousseau imagined nature. They are landowners
and their proprietary attitude towards what surrounds them is visible in their stance and their expressions. Professor Lawrence Gowing has protested indignantly against the
implication that Mr and Mrs Andrews were interested in property: Before John Berger manages to interpose himself again between us and the visible meaning of a good picture, may I
point out that there is evidence to confirm that Gainsborough’s Mr and Mrs Andrews were doing something more with their stretch of country than merely owning it. The explicit theme
of a contemporary and precisely analogous design by Gainsborough’s mentor Francis Hayman suggests that the people in such pictures were engaged in philosophic enjoyment of ‘the
great Principle… the genuine Light of uncorrupted and unperverted Nature.’ The professor’s argument is worth quoting because it is so striking an illustration of the
disingenuousness that bedevils the subject of art history. Of course it is very possible that Mr and Mrs Andrews were engaged in the philosophic enjoyment of unperverted Nature.
But this in no way precludes them from being at the same time proud landowners. In most cases the possession of private land was the precondition for such philosophic enjoyment –
which was not uncommon among the landed gentry. Their enjoyment of ‘uncorrupted and unperverted nature’ did not, however, usually include the nature of other men. The sentence of
poaching at that time was deportation. If a man stole a potato he risked a public whipping ordered by the magistrate who would be a landowner. There were very strict property
limits to what was considered natural. The point being made is that, among the pleasures their portrait gave to Mr and Mrs Andrews, was the pleasure of seeing themselves depicted
as landowners and this pleasure was enhanced by the ability of oil paint to render their land in all its substantiality. And this is an observation which needs to be made,
precisely because the cultural history we are normally taught pretends that it is an unworthy one. Our survey of the European oil painting has been very brief and therefore very
crude. It really amounts to no more than a project for study – to be undertaken perhaps by others. But the starting point of the project should be clear. The special qualities of
oil painting lent themselves to a special system of conventions for representing the visible. The sum total of these conventions is the way of seeing invented by oil painting. It
is usually said that the oil painting in its frame is like an imaginary window open on to the world. This is roughly the tradition’s own image of itself – even allowing for all the
stylistic changes (Mannerist, Baroque, Neo-Classic, Realist, etc.) which took place during four centuries. We are arguing that if one studies the culture of the European oil
painting as a whole, and if one leaves aside its own claims for itself, its model is not so much a framed window open on to the world as a safe let into the wall, a safe in which
the visible has been deposited. We are accused of being obsessed by property. The truth is the other way round. It is the society and culture in question which is so obsessed. Yet
to an obsessive his obsession always seems to be of the nature of things and so is not recognized for what it is. The relation between property and art in European culture appears
natural to that culture, and consequently if somebody demonstrates the extent of the property interest in a given cultural field, it is said to be a demonstration of his obsession.
And this allows the Cultural Establishment to project for a little longer its false rationalized image of itself. The essential character of oil painting has been obscured by an
almost universal misreading of the relationship between its ‘tradition’ and its ‘masters’. Certain exceptional artists in exceptional circumstances broke free of the norms of the
tradition and produced work that was diametrically opposed to its values; yet these artists are acclaimed as the tradition’s supreme representatives: a claim which is made easier
by the fact that after their death, the tradition closed around their work, incorporating minor technical innovations, and continuing as though nothing of principle had been
disturbed. This is why Rembrandt or Vermeer or Poussin or Chardin or Goya or Turner had no followers but only superficial imitators. From the tradition a kind of stereotype of ‘the
great artist’ has emerged. This great artist is a man whose life-time is consumed by struggle: partly against material circumstances, partly against incomprehension, partly against
himself. He is imagined as a kind of Jacob wrestling with an Angel. (The examples extend from Michelangelo to Van Gogh.) In no other culture has the artist been thought of in this
way. Why then in this culture? We have already referred to the exigencies of the open art market. But the struggle was not only to live. Each time a painter realized that he was
dissatisfied with the limited role of painting as a celebration of material property and of the status that accompanied it, he inevitably found himself struggling with the very
language of his own art as understood by the tradition of his calling. The two categories of exceptional works and average (typical) works are essential to our argument. But they
cannot be applied mechanically as critical criteria. The critic must understand the terms of the antagonism. Every exceptional work was the result of a prolonged successful
struggle. Innumerable works involved no struggle. There were also prolonged yet unsuccessful struggles. To be an exception a painter whose vision had been formed by the tradition,
and who had probably studied as an apprentice or student from the age of sixteen, needed to recognize his vision for what it was, and then to separate it from the usage for which
it had been developed. Single-handed he had to contest the norms of the art that had formed him. He had to see himself as a painter in a way that denied the seeing of a painter.
This meant that he saw himself doing something that nobody else could foresee. The degree of effort required is suggested in two self-portraits by Rembrandt. The first was painted
in 1634 when he was twenty-eight; the second thirty years later. But the difference between them amounts to something more than the fact that age has changed the painter’s
appearance and character. PORTRAIT OF HIMSELF AND SASKIA BY REMBRANDT 1606–1669 The first painting occupies a special place in, as it were, the film of Rembrandt’s life. He painted
it in the year of his first marriage. In it he is showing off Saskia his bride. Within six years she will be dead. The painting is cited to sum up the so-called happy period of the
artist’s life. Yet if one approaches it now without sentimentality, one sees that its happiness is both formal and unfelt. Rembrandt is here using the traditional methods for their
traditional purposes. His individual style may be becoming recognizable. But it is no more than the style of a new performer playing a traditional role. The painting as a whole
remains an advertisement for the sitter’s good fortune, prestige and wealth, (In this case Rembrandt’s own.) And like all such advertisements it is heartless. SELF-PORTRAIT BY
REMBRANDT 1606–1669 In the later painting he has turned the tradition against itself. He has wrested its language away from it. He is an old man. All has gone except a sense of the
question of existence, of existence as a question. And the painter in him – who is both more and less than the old man – has found the means to express just that, using a medium
which had been traditionally developed to exclude any such question. 6 EUROPE SUPPORTED BY AFRICA AND AMERICA MILDEW BLIGHTING EARS OF CORN SALE OF PICTURES AND SLAVES IN THE
ROTUNDA, NEW ORLEANS, 1842 WOMAN WITH WHITE STOCKINGS DEMOISELLES AU BORD DE LA SEINE LES ROMAINES DE LA DECADENCE LE SALON MADAME CAHEN D’ANVERS THE ONDINE OF NIDDEN WITCHES
SABBATH THE TEMPTATION OF ST ANTHONY PSYCHES BATH LA FORTUNE 7 In the cities in which we live, all of us see hundreds of publicity images every day of our lives. No other kind of
image confronts us so frequently. In no other form of society in history has there been such a concentration of images, such a density of visual messages. One may remember or
forget these messages but briefly one takes them in, and for a moment they stimulate the imagination by way of either memory or expectation. The publicity image belongs to the
moment. We see it as we turn a page, as we turn a corner, as a vehicle passes us. Or we see it on a television screen whilst waiting for the commercial break to end. Publicity
images also belong to the moment in the sense that they must be continually renewed and made up-to-date. Yet they never speak of the present. Often they refer to the past and
always they speak of the future. We are now so accustomed to being addressed by these images that we scarcely notice their total impact. A person may notice a particular image or
piece of information because it corresponds to some particular interest he has. But we accept the total system of publicity images as we accept an element of climate. For example,
the fact that these images belong to the moment but speak of the future produces a strange effect which has become so familiar that we scarcely notice it. Usually it is we who pass
the image – walking, travelling, turning a page; on the tv screen it is somewhat different but even then we are theoretically the active agent – we can look away, turn down the
sound, make some coffee. Yet despite this, one has the impression that publicity images are continually passing us, like express trains on their way to some distant terminus. We
are static; they are dynamic – until the newspaper is thrown away, the television programme continues or the poster is posted over. Publicity is usually explained and justified as
a competitive medium which ultimately benefits the public (the consumer) and the most efficient manufacturers – and thus the national economy. It is closely related to certain
ideas about freedom: freedom of choice for the purchaser: freedom of enterprise for the manufacturer. The great hoardings and the publicity neons of the cities of capitalism are
the immediate visible sign of ‘The Free World’. For many in Eastern Europe such images in the West sum up what they in the East lack. Publicity, it is thought, offers a free
choice. It is true that in publicity one brand of manufacture, one firm, competes with another; but it is also true that every publicity image confirms and enhances every other.
Publicity is not merely an assembly of competing messages: it is a language in itself which is always being used to make the same general proposal. Within publicity, choices are
offered between this cream and that cream, that car and this car, but publicity as a system only makes a single proposal. It proposes to each of us that we transform ourselves, or
our lives, by buying something more. This more, it proposes, will make us in some way richer – even though we will be poorer by having spent our money. Publicity persuades us of
such a transformation by showing us people who have apparently been transformed and are, as a result, enviable. The state of being envied is what constitutes glamour. And publicity
is the process of manufacturing glamour. It is important here not to confuse publicity with the pleasure or benefits to be enjoyed from the things it advertises. Publicity is
effective precisely because it feeds upon the real. Clothes, food, cars, cosmetics, baths, sunshine are real things to be enjoyed in themselves. Publicity begins by working on a
natural appetite for pleasure. But it cannot offer the real object of pleasure and there is no convincing substitute for a pleasure in that pleasure’s own terms. The more
convincingly publicity conveys the pleasure of bathing in a warm, distant sea, the more the spectator-buyer will become aware that he is hundreds of miles away from that sea and
the more remote the chance of bathing in it will seem to him. This is why publicity can never really afford to be about the product or opportunity it is proposing to the buyer who
is not yet enjoying it. Publicity is never a celebration of a pleasure-in-itself. Publicity is always about the future buyer. It offers him an image of himself made glamorous by
the product or opportunity it is trying to sell. The image then makes him envious of himself as he might be. Yet what makes this self-which-he-might-be enviable? The envy of
others. Publicity is about social relations, not objects. Its promise is not of pleasure, but of happiness: happiness as judged from the outside by others. The happiness of being
envied is glamour. Being envied is a solitary form of reassurance. It depends precisely upon not sharing your experience with those who envy you. You are observed with interest but
you do not observe with interest – if you do, you will become less enviable. In this respect the envied are like bureaucrats; the more impersonal they are, the greater the illusion
(for themselves and for others) of their power. The power of the glamorous resides in their supposed happiness: the power of the bureaucrat in his supposed authority. It is this
which explains the absent, unfocused look of so many glamour images. They look out over the looks of envy which sustain them. The spectator-buyer is meant to envy herself as she
will become if she buys the product. She is meant to imagine herself transformed by the product into an object of envy for others, an envy which will then justify her loving
herself. One could put this another way: the publicity image steals her love of herself as she is, and offers it back to her for the price of the product. Does the language of
publicity have anything in common with that of oil painting which, until the invention of the camera, dominated the European way of seeing during four centuries? It is one of those
questions which simply needs to be asked for the answer to become clear. There is a direct continuity. Only interests of cultural prestige have obscured it. At the same time,
despite the continuity, there is a profound difference which it is no less important to examine. There are many direct references in publicity to works of art from the past.
Sometimes a whole image is a frank pastiche of a well-known painting. DEJEUNER SUR L’HERBE BY MANET 1832–1883 Publicity images often use sculptures or paintings to lend allure or
authority to their own message. Framed oil paintings often hang in shop windows as part of their display. Any work of art ‘quoted’ by publicity serves two purposes. Art is a sign
of affluence; it belongs to the good life; it is part of the furnishing which the world gives to the rich and the beautiful. But a work of art also suggests a cultural authority, a
form of dignity, even of wisdom, which is superior to any vulgar material interest; an oil painting belongs to the cultural heritage; it is a reminder of what it means to be a
cultivated European. And so the quoted work of art (and this is why it is so useful to publicity) says two almost contradictory things at the same time: it denotes wealth and
spirituality: it implies that the purchase being proposed is both a luxury and a cultural value. Publicity has in fact understood the tradition of the oil painting more thoroughly
than most art historians. It has grasped the implications of the relationship between the work of art and its spectator-owner and with these it tries to persuade and flatter the
spectator-buyer. The continuity, however, between oil painting and publicity goes far deeper than the ‘quoting’ of specific paintings. Publicity relies to a very large extent on
the language of oil painting. It speaks in the same voice about the same things. Sometimes the visual correspondences are so close that it is possible to play a game of ‘Snap!’ –
putting almost identical images or details of images side by side. It is not, however, just at the level of exact pictorial correspondence that the continuity is important: it is
at the level of the sets of signs used. Compare the images of publicity and paintings in this book, or take a picture magazine, or walk down a smart shopping street looking at the
window displays, and then turn over the pages of an illustrated museum catalogue, and notice how similarly messages are conveyed by the two media. A systematic study needs to be
made of this. Here we can do no more than indicate a few areas where the similarity of the devices and aims is particularly striking. The gestures of models (mannequins) and
mythological figures. The romantic use of nature (leaves, trees, water) to create a place where innocence can be refound. The exotic and nostalgic attraction of the Mediterranean.
The poses taken up to denote stereotypes of women: serene mother (madonna), free-wheeling secretary (actress, king’s mistress), perfect hostess (spectator-owner’s wife), sex-object
(Venus, nymph surprised), etc. The special sexual emphasis given to women’s legs. The materials particularly used to indicate luxury: engraved metal, furs, polished leather, etc.
The gestures and embraces of lovers, arranged frontally for the benefit of the spectator. The sea, offering a new life. The physical stance of men conveying wealth and virility.
The treatment of distance by perspective – offering mystery. The equation of drinking and success. The man as knight (horseman) become motorist. Why does publicity depend so
heavily upon the visual language of oil painting? Publicity is the culture of the consumer society. It propagates through images that society’s belief in itself. There are several
reasons why these images use the language of oil painting. Oil painting, before it was anything else, was a celebration of private property. As an art-form it derived from the
principle that you are what you have. CARLO LODOVICO DI BORBONE PARMA WITH WIFE, SISTER AND FUTURE CARLO III OF PARMA, ANON 19TH CENTURY It is a mistake to think of publicity
supplanting the visual art of post-Renaissance Europe; it is the last moribund form of that art. Publicity is, in essence, nostalgic. It has to sell the past to the future. It
cannot itself supply the standards of its own claims. And so all its references to quality are bound to be retrospective and traditional. It would lack both confidence and
credibility if it used a strictly contemporary language. Publicity needs to turn to its own advantage the traditional education of the average spectator-buyer. What he has learnt
at school of history, mythology, poetry can be used in the manufacturing of glamour. Cigars can be sold in the name of a King, underwear in connection with the Sphinx, a new car by
reference to the status of a country house. In the language of oil painting these vague historical or poetic or moral references are always present. The fact that they are
imprecise and ultimately meaningless is an advantage: they should not be understandable, they should merely be reminiscent of cultural lessons half-learnt. Publicity makes all
history mythical, but to do so effectively it needs a visual language with historical dimensions. Lastly, a technical development made it easy to translate the language of oil
painting into publicity clichés. This was the invention, about fifteen years ago, of cheap colour photography. Such photography can reproduce the colour and texture and tangibility
of objects as only oil paint had been able to do before. Colour photography is to the spectator-buyer what oil paint was to the spectator-owner. Both media use similar, highly
tactile means to play upon the spectator’s sense of acquiring the real thing which the image shows. In both cases his feeling that he can almost touch what is in the image reminds
him how he might or does possess the real thing. STILL LIFE WITH DRINKING VESSELS BY CLASEZ 1596/7-1661 Yet, despite this continuity of language, the function of publicity is very
different from that of the oil painting. The spectator-buyer stands in a very different relation to the world from the spectator-owner. The oil painting showed what its owner was
already enjoying among his possessions and his way of life. It consolidated his own sense of his own value. It enhanced his view of himself as he already was. It began with facts,
the facts of his life. The paintings embellished the interior in which he actually lived. The purpose of publicity is to make the spectator marginally dissatisfied with his present
way of life. Not with the way of life of society, but with his own within it. It suggests that if he buys what it is offering, his life will become better. It offers him an
improved alternative to what he is. The oil painting was addressed to those who made money out of the market. Publicity is addressed to those who constitute the market, to the
spectator-buyer who is also the consumer producer from whom profits are made twice over – as worker and then as buyer. The only places relatively free of publicity are the quarters
of the very rich; their money is theirs to keep. All publicity works upon anxiety. The sum of everything is money, to get money is to overcome anxiety. Alternatively the anxiety on
which publicity plays is the fear that having nothing you will be nothing. Money is life. Not in the sense that without money you starve. Not in the sense that capital gives one
class power over the entire lives of another class. But in the sense that money is the token of, and the key to, every human capacity. The power to spend money is the power to
live. According to the legends of publicity, those who lack the power to spend money become literally faceless. Those who have the power become lovable. Publicity increasingly uses
sexuality to sell any product or service. But this sexuality is never free in itself; it is a symbol for something presumed to be larger than it: the good life in which you can buy
whatever you want. To be able to buy is the same thing as being sexually desirable; occasionally this is the explicit message of publicity as in the Barclaycard advertisement
above. Usually it is the implicit message, i.e. If you are able to buy this product you will be lovable. If you cannot buy it, you will be less lovable. For publicity the present
is by definition insufficient. The oil painting was thought of as a permanent record. One of the pleasures a painting gave to its owner was the thought that it would convey the
image of his present to the future of his descendants. Thus the oil painting was naturally painted in the present tense. The painter painted what was before him, either in reality
or in imagination. The publicity image which is ephemeral uses only the future tense. With this you will become desirable. In these surroundings all your relationships will become
happy and radiant. Publicity principally addressed to the working class tends to promise a personal transformation through the function of the particular product it is selling
(Cinderella); middle-class publicity promises a transformation of relationships through a general atmosphere created by an ensemble of products (The Enchanted Palace). Publicity
speaks in the future tense and yet the achievement of this future is endlessly deferred. How then does publicity remain credible – or credible enough to exert the influence it
does? It remains credible because the truthfulness of publicity is judged, not by the real fulfilment of its promises, but by the relevance of its fantasies to those of the
spectator-buyer. Its essential application is not to reality but to daydreams. To understand this better we must go back to the notion of glamour. Glamour is a modern invention. In
the heyday of the oil painting it did not exist. Ideas of grace, elegance, authority amounted to something apparently similar but fundamentally different. MRS SIDDONS BY
GAINSBOROUGH 1727–1788 Mrs Siddons as seen by Gainsborough is not glamorous, because she is not presented as enviable and therefore happy. She may be seen as wealthy, beautiful,
talented, lucky. But her qualities are her own and have been recognized as such. What she is does not entirely depend upon others wanting to be like her. She is not purely the
creature of others’ envy – which is how, for example, Andy Warhol presents Marilyn Monroe. MARILYN MONROE BY ANDY WARHOL Glamour cannot exist without personal social envy being a
common and widespread emotion. The industrial society which has moved towards democracy and then stopped half way is the ideal society for generating such an emotion. The pursuit
of individual happiness has been acknowledged as a universal right. Yet the existing social conditions make the individual feel powerless. He lives in the contradiction between
what he is and what he would like to be. Either he then becomes fully conscious of the contradiction and its causes, and so joins the political struggle for a full democracy which
entails, amongst other things, the overthrow of capitalism; or else he lives, continually subject to an envy which, compounded with his sense of powerlessness, dissolves into
recurrent day-dreams. It is this which makes it possible to understand why publicity remains credible. The gap between what publicity actually offers and the future it promises,
corresponds with the gap between what the spectator-buyer feels himself to be and what he would like to be. The two gaps become one; and instead of the single gap being bridged by
action or lived experience, it is filled with glamorous daydreams. The process is often reinforced by working conditions. The interminable present of meaningless working hours is
‘balanced’ by a dreamt future in which imaginary activity replaces the passivity of the moment. In his or her day-dreams the passive worker becomes the active consumer. The working
self envies the consuming self. No two dreams are the same. Some are instantaneous, others prolonged. The dream is always personal to the dreamer. Publicity does not manufacture
the dream. All that it does is to propose to each one of us that we are not yet enviable – yet could be. Publicity has another important social function. The fact that this
function has not been planned as a purpose by those who make and use publicity in no way lessens its significance. Publicity turns consumption into a substitute for democracy. The
choice of what one eats (or wears or drives) takes the place of significant political choice. Publicity helps to mask and compensate for all that is undemocratic within society.
And it also masks what is happening in the rest of the world. Publicity adds up to a kind of philosophical system. It explains everything in its own terms. It interprets the world.
The entire world becomes a setting for the fulfilment of publicity’s promise of the good life. The world smiles at us. It offers itself to us. And because everywhere is imagined as
offering itself to us, everywhere is more or less the same. According to publicity, to be sophisticated is to live beyond conflict. Publicity can translate even revolution into its
own terms. The contrast between publicity’s interpretation of the world and the world’s actual condition is a very stark one, and this sometimes becomes evident in the colour
magazines which deal with news stories. Overleaf is the contents page of such a magazine. The shock of such contrasts is considerable: not only because of the coexistence of the
two worlds shown, but also because of the cynicism of the culture which shows them one above the other. It can be argued that the juxtaposition of images was not planned.
Nevertheless the text, the photographs taken in Pakistan, the photographs taken for the advertisements, the editing of the magazine, the layout of the publicity, the printing of
both, the fact that advertiser’s pages and news pages cannot be co-ordinated – all these are produced by the same culture. It is not, however, the moral shock of the contrast which
needs emphasizing. Advertisers themselves can take account of the shock. The Advertisers Weekly (3 March 1972) reports that some publicity firms, now aware of the commercial danger
of such unfortunate juxtapositions in news magazines, are deciding to use less brash, more sombre images, often in black and white rather than colour. What we need to realize is
what such contrasts reveal about the nature of publicity. Publicity is essentially eventless. It extends just as far as nothing else is happening. For publicity all real events are
exceptional and happen only to strangers. In the Bangla Desh photographs, the events were tragic and distant. But the contrast would have been no less stark if they had been events
near at hand in Derry or Birmingham. Nor is the contrast necessarily dependent upon the events being tragic. If they are tragic, their tragedy alerts our moral sense to the
contrast. Yet if the events were joyous and if they were photographed in a direct and unstereotyped way the contrast would be just as great. Publicity, situated in a future
continually deferred, excludes the present and so eliminates all becoming, all development. Experience is impossible within it. All that happens, happens outside it. The fact that
publicity is eventless would be immediately obvious if it did not use a language which makes of tangibility an event in itself. Everything publicity shows is there awaiting
acquisition. The act of acquiring has taken the place of all other actions, the sense of having has obliterated all other senses. Publicity exerts an enormous influence and is a
political phenomenon of great importance. But its offer is as narrow as its references are wide. It recognizes nothing except the power to acquire. All other human faculties or
needs are made subsidiary to this power. All hopes are gathered together, made homogeneous, simplified, so that they become the intense yet vague, magical yet repeatable promise
offered in every purchase. No other kind of hope or satisfaction or pleasure can any longer be envisaged within the culture of capitalism. Publicity is the life of this culture –
in so far as without publicity capitalism could not survive – and at the same time publicity is its dream. Capitalism survives by forcing the majority, whom it exploits, to define
their own interests as narrowly as possible. This was once achieved by extensive deprivation. Today in the developed countries it is being achieved by imposing a false standard of
what is and what is not desirable. To be continued by the reader A book made by John Berger, Sven Blomberg, Chris Fox, Michael Dibb, Richard Hollis Note to the reader This book has
been made by five of us. Our starting point was some of the ideas contained in the television series Ways of Seeing. We have tried to extend and elaborate these ideas. They have
influenced not only what we say but also how we have set about trying to say it. The form of the book is as much to do with our purpose as the arguments contained within it. The
book consists of seven numbered essays. They can be read in any order. Four of the essays use words and images, three of them use only images. These purely pictorial essays (on
ways of seeing women and on various contradictory aspects of the tradition of the oil painting) are intended to raise as many questions as the verbal essays. Sometimes in the
pictorial essays no information at all is given about the images reproduced because it seemed to us that such information might distract from the points being made. In all cases,
however, this information can be found in the List of Works Reproduced which is printed at the end of the book. None of the essays pretends to deal with more than certain aspects
of each subject: particularly those aspects thrown into relief by a modern historical consciousness. Our principal aim has been to start a process of questioning. List of Works
Reproduced 8 The Key of Dreams by René Magritte, 1898–1967, private collection 12 Regents of the Old Men’s Alms House by Frans Hals, 1580–1666, Frans Hals Museum, Haarlem 12
Regentesses of the Old Men’s Alms House by Frans Hals, 1580–1666, Frans Hals Museum, Haarlem 18 Still Life with Wicker Chair by Picasso 1881– 20 Virgin of the Rocks by Leonardo da
Vinci, 1452–1519, National Gallery, London 22 Virgin of the Rocks by Leonardo da Vinci, 1452–1519, Louvre, Paris 23 The Virgin and Child with St Anne and St John the Baptist by
Leonardo da Vinci, 1452–1519, National Gallery, London 25 Venus and Mars by Sandro Botticelli, 1445–1510, National Gallery, London 27 The Procession to Calvary by Pieter Breughel
the Elder, 1525–69, Kunsthistorisches Museum, Vienna 27 Wheatfield with Crows by Vincent van Gogh, 1853–90, Stedelijk Museum, Amsterdam 31 Woman Pouring Milk by Jan Vermeer,
1632–75, Rijksmuseum, Amsterdam 38 (top left) Nude by Picasso, 1881 – 38 (top right) Nude by Modigliani, 1884–1920, Courtauld Institute Galleries, London 38 (bottom left) Nevermore
