example. That's because Photoshop had a lot of trouble finding the neutral gray, and to find the 15:46 neutral gray, you can click on the gray point eye dropper and just click on
an area of the 15:51 image that should be a neutral gray, like the brick path, and the image looks much better. 15:56 Now some of you may be thinking, "Why not just start with the
neutral gray eye dropper 16:03 and not click on auto?" If you do, the image looks a little washed out. So you do need to click on auto to get the contrast right, and then click on
the image 16:12 to uh, on the neutral gray, to neutralize it. So um, I just want to show you what's going on behind the scenes, that way you understand 16:21 what that algorithm is
doing. So remember, the algorithm is called, find dark and light colors. 16:29 So what does that mean? Before that algorithm came around, way back when in Photoshop, some of you
that have been 16:35 using it for a while, you might remember that you can um, white balance an image by simply 16:43 going to each individual channel and just finding the darkest
and brightest points of an image. 16:48 This is the black point, this is the information in the image, so I'm finding the information 16:53 here, I don't need to do it on the white
point. Then in the green channel, I can do the same. 16:59 Just finding the dark and brightest points. In the blue channel, I have to do both the black point and the white point.
17:07 So see how that gives me the same result I had earlier? And when I click on the gray point eye dropper, I neutralize the image. 17:15 And I think it would've been a better
example to show you on the... On this image. 17:22 'Cause the image actually gets co- color corrected in this, in this case. So I'll do it really quickly. I'll go into the red
channel and you can see that as I find the black point and white point, 17:30 the image starts looking better and much, much better on every single channel once I 17:38 find the
dark and bright points. So that's what that algorithm is doing, basically it's just finding the dark and light colors 17:46 for you, and it makes them black and it makes them
white. Now with that knowledge, we can go into our composite here and we can tell Photoshop to 17:56 instead of finding black and white, to find the darkest colors in this image
and apply 18:01 them to the runner. To do so, I'm going to go into the curves adjustment layer, click on this icon to clip 18:08 it to the layer below. Clipping simply means that
you will, that this adjustment layer will only adjust the 18:13 layer below. So that's it. That's what that clip does and that's what this arrow in the layer panel represents.
18:21 So with this layer selected, I'm going to hit the auto button by holding alt and I do 18:29 not need neutral mid tones because this image has a color match, so I definitely
don't need 18:35 that. I do want to stay with the fine and d- fine, dark and light colors and click on this black 18:43 color swatch for the shadows and then I can select what the
darkest color of my image is. 18:49 So if I select this really, really dark blue here, and actually I made a mistake. The image turned white. 18:54 Why did it turn white? That's
because I didn't properly select the right um, icon to work with. 19:01 See how the white outline here? This focus? This white focus is on the layer mask? 19:07 It needs to be on
the actual curves adjustment layer. So if I click on the actual curves adjustment layer, notice how the focus changes. 19:14 So if I do that again, when I click on this area,
you'll see that it changes to this dark 19:20 blue and I can move it around if I need to. So I'm just going to move it around, just make it a little more blue and press OK. 19:25
And I can do the same for the highlights. I need to find an area like the snow here, to represent my highlights and press OK. 19:34 Notice that it doesn't look very good and that's
because snap neutral mid tones is check, but once I uncheck that, it's going to look much better and it's going to look more like 19:42 the background. And I can keep fine tuning
it as much as I need, make it brighter, darker, whatever you 19:48 think it needs so that the image looks more realistic, and I think in this case I may need to go a little bit
brighter on here and press OK. 19:56 I'll press OK one more time. Photoshop is going to ask you if you want to make these the default colors. 20:03 You actually do not, because
then next time you want to color correct something, you're going to be using these colors. 20:09 So most of the times you're going to click no. And now you can use the RGB channel
to give the image contrast and make it match the scene. 20:20 One trick that I like using is creating a black and white adjustment layer so that we 20:26 lose all the color in the
scene and we can just see the luminance values. Then with the curves adjustment layer, I can just fine tune the image and try to make it 20:35 look... If the image looks good in
black and white, it'll look good in color. So I'm just trying to make it match. 20:41 Meaning that I want the darkest pixels in, on her, to be similar to the darker pixels 20:47 in
the background. So something like this, I would say. 20:52 Once I disable that black and white adjustment layer, notice how much better the foreground image looks. 20:59 I just
want to mention that uh, since we're done with this section here and we're, uh, I want to mention one quick, really quickly and Andrew, I know Andrew's going to talk 21:07 about it
more in the chat. But if you're interested in compositing and you want to take a deep dive into compositing, 21:15 you can check out my premi- uh, premium tutorials at
photoshoptrainingchannel.com/shop, and 21:21 as I said, Andrew should be pasting the link in there somewhere and I have a course on compositing. 21:27 It's this one here, so it's
about five hours long and I cover a whole bunch of things on 21:33 compositing. I have uh, transcripts available. You can watch the free sample video if you like, but if you're
into compositing and you 21:39 want to learn more, I do have a full five hour course on compositing in Photoshop. 21:45 We talk about perspective, lights, shadows, um, a whole
bunch of different things. 21:52 Reflections, uh, almost anything you want to know about compositing. So if you're enjoying this stream, check it out. 21:59 Also there's going to
be a discount code and uh, Andrew again, will post that on the chat 22:06 and yeah. Andrew just I see that, I just saw that you posted the compositing course and I'm sure 22:11
you'll be posting the discount code. It's 10% off for the people watching this stream. 22:17 But anyway, we have now found the perspective of the image, masked our model, applied a
22:26 color match to make the model look more realistic, and now it's time to just fine tune the image Blending Modes 22:34 further. I'm going to press control, semi colon, to
disable the guide. 22:39 Control, semi colon, enables in the sales guides and what I'm going to do now is zoom 22:47 in just to show you some of the details that, that are missing.
See how in the background we have a lot of snow coming in and we don't necessarily see 22:55 that on her? Well obviously this is not realistic so we need to make sure that we get
some, some snow on her. 23:01 And there's a lot of ways that you can add snow into Photoshop. One of the ways that I prefer is simply by going into um, the internet and finding an
23:09 image. I like to use Adobe Stock and from the library's panel you can search on Adobe Stock and you 23:15 can just type something like, "Snow overlay," and you're going to
get all these different overlays from Adobe Stock that you can use on your image. 23:23 Obviously you need to license those images, um, but I already have one licensed here from
23:28 Adobe Stock. So I have this snow image and when you're doing this, find something that has white snow or rain or whatever it is. 23:35 The point is that you need white and
then black in the background so that's it's easier to composite and I'm just going to click and rotate this layer so that the snow sort of 23:44 matches the snow in the scene.
maybe even make it a little larger. Oops, sorry about that. 23:49 Um, let me undo that. Maybe make it a little larger and just place it right there. 23:55 And I want the snow to
only affect model, so I'm going to press control, alt, G. Command, option, Google on the Mac, to clip it to the model like so. 24:05 And now I need to hide the black pixels and
only keep the white pixels, and to do so you 24:14 can click on this drop down and just use blending modes. And we have all these different blending modes that blend layers
together. 24:22 The darkened group, see how these lines are between certain, uh, blending modes? Those are groups, normal group, darkened group. 24:30 The darkened group obviously
makes things darker, and the lighten group, well obviously made things brighter, and the blending mode that you're looking for is screen. 24:39 This one here. So notice how the
black background disappears and we only keep the foreground. 24:45 See that? Now obviously we need to make a couple adjustments like the snow is way too sharp, so let me 24:52 just
go into filter, blur, Gaussian blur, and blur it a little bit, just 'cause I'm 24:57 trying to make the blur of the actual snow in the scene and you know what? I think I might, may
have made the snow way too large. 25:05 So let me transform it and actually, I'll go the opposite way this time. I'll make it way smaller. 25:14 Maybe something like this. And
that's looking a little more like the snow in the scene and what I'll do now is 25:21 I'll just apply a image adjustment, hue and saturation adjustment, so that I can make 25:28
the snow bluish like the snow in the scene. Something like this, and press OK, and maybe bring down the opacity just a little bit. 25:41 And obviously this will take some fine
tuning, but you can see that right away we made the snow look a lot like the snow in the scene, just by using that snow overlay. 25:51 So you can use these overlays to get uh, I'm
sorry, you can use Adobe Stock to get overlays 25:59 and actually I just thought about something that I'm going to show you. Let me just uh, look for my Creative Cloud app. 26:05
Um, Adobe Stock, you obviously have to license images, um, which means you have to pay to 26:10 use them. But if you want free assets from Adobe, if you're a member of the Creative
Cloud, the full Creative Cloud, unfortunately not the photography plan, but the full creative cloud, 26:19 you can go into the assets tab on your Creative Cloud app and you have
this tab here called 26:25 market, which allows you to download um, user interfaces, vectors, icons, patterns and brushes. 26:32 So for example, I can find, I can go into brushes
and I can type something like, um, 26:39 we'll try a fog brush. We'll see if we can find one, and you want the brushes, and we have some fog brushes 26:50 here. So I haven't used
these before so we'll see how they work. So I'll, I think I like this one here. Smoke brush number three, actually no, number two. 26:57 We'll use number two and we'll click on
this icon to send it to my uh, downloads folder. 27:02 Actually, I'll put it in my tutorials folder. I'll put it in my tutorials folder and it's downloading. 27:10 Should be on
there pretty soon and let me just go into my libraries panel, go into my tutorials folder and let me just delete that, and you can see the brushes here. 27:22 And there it is. This
is the one that I, I just brought in. So I can just double click on it and the brush will automatically selects it. 27:29 There it is and then in a new layer, I can start painting
with that brush. So that's what that brush looks like. 27:34 Obviously yellow's not the right color, so maybe I want to add a little bit of fog in here, a little bit of smoke, so
maybe I could do it with like o- like a light blue or something 27:45 like that and I'll try it again, and just paint in some of that smoke and obviously adjust the opacity and
things like that. 27:51 Just to, to bring in some of this, some of this mist, some of this smog, uh, smoke or, 27:56 or fog rather. Um, and there it is. So that's before and after.
28:02 But the point is is that you have to, you, you can use the Adobe Creative Cloud app under 28:08 assets and under market, to find all these different brushes of any kind and
also the 28:15 icons. So maybe you're working on a design and you're looking for you know, I don't know, the Facebook 28:21 icon, since we're on Facebook. Let's see what they got.
Um, I guess they don't have a lot of things on Facebook on here. 28:26 I think if you type in social media actually there, something may come up, like in one of those packs. Let's
see, social media. 28:33 Yeah, so if you type in social media, you can get these packs that have uh, those icons 28:40 and then use them for whatever you need to. So we have the
like button, Pinterest and all of these different things. So all these assets are free and you can use them on your projects. 28:50 All right, so now that we have all these layers
together, uh, or not together, uh, I want 29:01 to pull all these layers together. Um, just control on a single image, so that's the cohesiveness part of the image. 29:08 We've uh,
talked about masking, perspective, color matching, blending modes and now we're going to do cohesiveness. 29:14 And what I like to do once I have my composite more or less in this
part, um, I like to just Making Composites Cohesive 29:21 put all my layers together. So I'm going to hold shift and click on the bottom layer and then the top layer and it selects
them all. 29:27 And then pre- and then right click and select convert to smart object, and this is going 29:32 to put the entire composite into a smart object. If I double click on
it, it opens up in a new tab and I can edit it. 29:39 For now, I'm just going to work with the smart object and what I'm going to do is go into 29:45 filter, um, camera raw filter,
and I can adjustment this composite as a single layer. 29:51 So I can maybe make it cooler, I could adjustment the shadows, make them darker, maybe add clarity, 29:58 which is
contrast in the mid tones, to make it pop and seem a little more grungy. Maybe you the vibrance which is uh, smart saturation. 30:07 It adds saturation to pixels that are not
already saturated and it protects skin tones, 30:13 and I als- I also want to sharpen the image. So when I sharpen the image, I really can't tell what I'm sharpening and you always
want 30:20 to sharpen at 100% so that you can really see what's going on. Any other zoom level will be misleading and it won't give you a right representation of 30:28 the
sharpening. So when you increase sharpening, you obviously sharpen the entire image, right? 30:33 But Photoshop allows you to mask the sharpening by using the masking slider. 30:39
Now when you drag it to the right, you can't really see what's going on but if you hold 30:44 alt, option on the Mac, you'll see that the screen turns white, just like a layer
mask. White reveals, and black conceals. 30:52 If I drag it to the right you can see how the image starts getting darker. 31:00 So those, in those dark areas, we will not apply the
sharpening effect. 31:05 So back here in the fog, I don't really want any sharpening there, so I can drag it to 31:10 the right and completely hide the sharpening effect from that
area so the sharpening effect 31:15 will only be applied to the areas in white, which are the edge of the image. So now if I bump it all the way up to 150, it doesn't look as bad.
31:24 So you can fine tune it and you get the sharpening for your image. 31:29 I also want to go into the effects tab and add a little bit of grain. 31:35 So if you zoom in, you'll
notice that the background has some grain but it doesn't really match the foreground. 31:40 So that would be a little bit unrealistic so I'll just add a little bit, a little bit of
grain to both, just so that we can match the grain a bit better. 31:50 And I'm going to fit this into view and also add a vignette, and increase the highlights. 31:58 Highlight
simply means that the dark vignette wi- won't effect the bright pixels and then 32:03 I'll press OK. So you can see the before and the after. 32:09 Also, if I want to make an edit
to ca- to those camera raw adjustments, I can double click on the camera raw filter label 32:17 and it brings it back up and I can make any adjustment that I want. Or if I want to
make an adjustment on the actual composite, I can double click on the 32:27 smart object and make my adjustment. For example, I can move the model here to right, actually right
about here's probably 32:37 what it would look, where it would look best, and then press control S, command S on the Mac, to save. 32:43 And notice how the smart object updated and
all those camera raw filters were applied to the uh, adjustment that I made. 32:51 So it's a really great way, so uh, when you composite in Photoshop, you should be, you 32:57
should be working undestructively, so that you can make adjustments at a later point, um, and the reason you want to make adjustments is because if you have a client that decides
33:06 that they want to change, it's easier for you to change. If you're working for yourself or it's a fun project, it's a personal project, then you 33:15 may change your mind at
a later date and it allows you the flexibility to make these changes. So working undestructively is key when working with composites in Photoshop. 33:25 I'm going to take a quick
break. I like to remind you that you can go into my website, photoshoptrainingchannel.com and 33:34 check out my compositing course. It's five hours long, where I talk about a
whole bunch of different things. 33:39 You can see the index here, you can get a free sample if you want. I have transcripts for every videos. 33:45 There's uh, PDFs and uh, the
files so you can work with them. So check them out, check it out if you want. 33:51 Andrew will place the link to the page on the chat and he's also got a discount code 33:58 in
case you're interested of getting this course. So let's get back into Photoshop. 34:05 Let me go ahead and close these files since we don't need them anymore, and I got a couple of
other things I want to show you. 34:11 So I'm going to show you a different way of compositing and uh, what I mean by that is... Remove People From Photos 34:17 Let me just show
you these images. These are photos that I took in the Louvre museum in Paris, France. 34:27 And as you can see, there's people walking through them. So I'll just open one so you
can see them. So there's all a bunch of people walking through the scene and I want to remove everybody, 34:35 and obviously I can use things like content aware and things like,
you know, cloning and, 34:41 let me just quickly show you what I mean by that. So you know, one, one of the things I could use, and I don't know how well this is going to work, but
I could use content aware, right? 34:48 Uh, there's a new one and the old one. I'll just show you the old one for now just 'cause it's easier to explain. So if I hold shift and
back space, I can let Photoshop uh, try to fill that in and that 34:58 may or may not work. So I could use something like the patch tool and you know, try to match it from another
35:06 area and see if that works, and you know, keep, keep using patches and you know, try to remove everyone in the scene, and obviously that will take forever. 35:15 So um, if
you're ever in a situation like this, where you have a scene you want but there's a lot of people walking through, Photoshop actually gives the capability of compositing 35:24
images together and then apply an algorithm to keep or remove certain pixels, depending on the algorithm. 35:30 And what I did is, I took 14 different photos of this museum and in
Photoshop, I can put 35:41 them all in really, really easily. So if I got into filter, uh, I'm sorry, file, scripts, statistics, I can go into the uh, 35:56 folder here under use.
Click on browse and under my Louvre museum, I can select that and it's going to load all 36:07 those files into Photoshop. Then I can select the stack mode, this is the algorithm
and the algorithm that I want is median. 36:15 Median simply means look at all the images and keep the constant pixels and get rid of the not constant pixels. 36:23 So in, in a
scene like that one, people are walking through, so those people are not constant because they're moving. 36:28 The buildings are obviously constant, so it'll keep the buildings.
Um, usually want to do this with a camera and a tripod. 36:35 I didn't have a camera or a tripod, I had my cell phone and no tripod. So what I had to do was hold very, very still
and take these photos roughly 20, 30 seconds 36:45 apart. You have to keep an eye out and make sure that everybody moves. Because if you have a group of people standing there not
moving, then obviously they're going to stay. 36:53 So you do have to keep an eye out um, for those kinds of things, but just take your photos, wait a few seconds and take a few
more photos. 37:01 And the number of photos really depends on the scene. I would just take as many as possible and then see what works in Photoshop. 37:06 In this case, 14 was the
right number and I'll just press OK. So you'll notice that Photoshop is going to load all those images into your panel and 37:16 then it's going to attempt to align them, since I
was moving. Remember? And then it's going to apply that algorithm, and notice how really, really quickly, Photoshop 37:25 just removed everyone from the scene, just like that. Just
like magic. 37:32 Now it's not perfect. If I zoom in, you'll see that there's a couple imperfections. See that? Like that person right there, that's somebody's arm. 37:38 I can
just create a new layer and with the spot healing brush tool, I can just click 37:44 and drag and move, remove that arm from the image. And I know there's couple more. 37:50
There's on here, really, really easy to remove now, and that there. 37:57 Very easy, and you can see that, the job that Photoshop did. 38:04 Now the problem is that the clouds were
moving. So since the clouds were moving, we got this really, really weird effect. 38:09 That's really easy to fix. We can double click on the smart object to open up the tab and we
can simply um, use 38:19 these clouds to fix the mistake. But see that? See how the clouds are moving? That's why we got that weird cloud effect. 38:25 So I am going to just select
the clouds with the return to Rectangular Marquee Tool, go 38:30 to edit, copy, and then go back into the working document, edit, paste special, paste in place, 38:39 and we have
the sky back. We do have a scene right here in the pyramid but with the layer mask, with a layer mask, 38:46 I can paint with black using a soft brush, and remove that scene. 38:53
Before and after. Then I can put all these layers together by holding shift on the top layer, holding shift 39:00 on the bottom layer, right clicking and selecting convert to smart
object, and we'll do what we did in the previous example. 39:06 Treat it as a single image with the camera raw filter, and I'm going to create this HDR 39:13 effect by reducing the
highlights, increasing the shadows, adding a whole bunch of clarity, 39:19 which is contrast in the mid tones. I'll increase the vibrance as well, and I'll add a little bit of
sharpening and press OK. 39:29 Then I'll crop the edges, the edges look black because the images were not aligned properly. 39:34 Remember that I was movin- that I was, uh, using
my, my hands to hold the camera, so 39:39 I'm obviously breathing, moving a little bit, so that's why you get that effect in the corners, but you can click and drag the handles
here with the crop tool, to crop those corners 39:51 and I can just rotate it to straighten the horizon and just match it as best as I, er, 39:59 just crop it as best as I can,
like so. 40:05 And actually I think that I might've rotated it a little too much, maybe a little bit. 40:11 Just like that, and that's the final image. 40:16 So really, really
quickly we were able to composite all those images and get this really, 40:23 really cool effect, really fast. So we are going to be finishing the stream in just a couple moments.
40:30 I'm going to go back and look at the chat and see if there's any questions. Feel free to ans- ask any question and I'll try to answer it. 40:39 (laughs). But keep in mind, we
only have about five or so minutes, so let me know. 40:48 And I'm looking at the chat now, um, somebody said, "I want the, uh, lesson about masking." 40:54 If I'm not mistaken, I
did a, um, uh, one, a lesson on masking about two years ago in 41:00 this group and it should be in the record- recording somewhere. I don't know if Andrew can, has access to that,
but um, Andrew if, if you have access 41:09 to the old recordings I've done on this group, I did one on masking I think. 41:15 So you might want to place the link there. Um,
everybody's saying, "Wow, nice, miracle." Yeah, it's really cool. 41:20 This is a really cool technique and I really, really like it. Also, if you're on Instagram, I'm @JRfromPTC,
follow me on Instagram there and don't forget 41:29 about my Photoshop compositing course. It's on my website, Andrew's been pasting the link in the description, or in the, I'm
41:37 sorry, in the um, chat there, and you can check it out. There's also a discount code and I talk about all kinds of things, including perspective, 41:46 reflections, lights
and all these different things. So I would recommend it if you really want to get into compositing and Photoshop. 41:55 And that's it for this tutorial. I hope that you enjoyed it
and that you learned something new. If you're interested in the compositing course, I'm going to place a link down below in the 42:04 description, with the coupon code, so you can
also get the same discount that the people got when they watched the live presentation. 42:11 And if this is your first time at the photoshoptrainingchannel, then don't forget to
click on that subscribe and notification buttons. 42:17 Thank you so much for watching. I will talk to you again in the next tutorial. All From the series 0:07 [Aaron Nace] Hello,
and welcome to Advanced Compositing for Brands Photography and Type. My name is Aaron Nace from phlearn.com. 0:15 And in today's course, we're going to be going over four different
examples that can be used in so many different situations. 0:22 We're going to be showing you how to cut your subject out of their background and create like a beautiful banner
behind your subject, 0:30 including type and an interesting gradient and blurred effect that blurs the background. We're even going to be expanding the background in our images.
0:39 We're also going to be creating a few different types of mockups. We're going to show you how to take a sign and place it into a photograph into perspective, 0:48 and we're
going to show you how to take a banner or a graphic and place it onto a product for mockup purposes as well. 0:55 Now, in our final example, we're going to be taking a different
product photo and placing it onto a new background, and even placing labels. 1:02 So all of these different mockups and composites, all of these are going to help serve different
purposes, 1:08 depending on which market you're interested in, and all the techniques can be used in a variety of different ways. 1:14 We've got a great lab session for you, all of
the assets are available for you to follow along as well. Let's go ahead and jump into Photoshop. 1:21 So here in Photoshop, the first thing we want to do is take our Stock images.
We're going to go to our first example and bring both of our Stock images 1:28 right here into Photoshop, just click and drag them both in. Now we have this really interesting
graphics, 1:34 I want to put this basically into this image, but we're going to wait on that for just a second. For now, we're going to click on our main image and hit F for full
screen. 1:42 The first thing I want to do, and this happens all the time, our banner looks really good, it's very wide, but what happens if we want to make this a little bit
taller? 1:50 Now obviously, I don't want to go stretching the people in this photograph, it's not going to look good. So we're going to use Content-Aware crop to add more
information to this image. 1:59 So to start off, let's go ahead and hit our crop tool, C for the crop tool, or you can just simply click right over here on your crop. 2:05 Now, up
here at the very top, you have a few different options. Up here it says Delete Cropped Pixels. I recommend keeping that unchecked. 2:12 It's going to be checked on by default, so
be sure to uncheck that. That's just going to allow you to get your work back at any time if you need to. 2:18 Now the other option here is called Content-Aware. This means if you
crop larger than your area of your photo, 2:24 it's going to fill that in automatically. So let's go ahead and click here on our image and just drag this up a little bit, 2:31
there we go and hit that checkbox. So it's going to increase the amount of size up there, but as you can see, the computer is thinking right now, 2:38 because it's actually
analyzing the rest of the image and filling it in with whatever it thinks is going to be best. 2:45 And as we can see, it actually did a pretty good job. This woodgrain over here
looks good, the window over here looks good. 2:50 This area here is not perfect, but we can fill that in. Let's, for instance, crop our clone stamp tool. 2:58 I'm going to sample
our current and below layer, and then I'm just going to hold Alt or Option 3:03 and just kind of fill this in with what I think should be there. There we go. 3:09 So just a little
bit of cleanup here, and you can see you can extend your image, which is incredibly incredibly helpful. 3:16 There's a lot of times as designers, you know, we're asked to like make
an ad banner or something like that for a website or things like that, 3:23 and the assets that you have just aren't large enough. So this Content-Aware fill can be a huge, huge
help. 3:30 There we go, let's go ahead and just fill that in there, just a little bit, and fantastic. 3:36 So of course you can do this sort of thing manually, but the
Content-Aware option really helps you out. 3:41 Now, I chose the top because it's relatively simple. We have a wall and things like that. 3:47 Now if we hit C for Content-Aware
crop and we try to add information to the bottom, let's go ahead and see what that looks like. 3:54 All right, Content-Aware fill, and we can see, yeah, in some places it's okay,
but our subject just kind of like repeats over and over and over again. 4:01 So the tool does have its limitations. I recommend using relatively simple areas with simple
backgrounds. 4:08 It works fantastic in those cases. So next time you're out on a photoshoot or working with a client, you can say, "Hey, let's photograph the subject against a
white wall," 4:16 knowing that you can add space vertically or horizontally at any time. All right, let's go ahead and hit Undo. 4:22 Now for now, my main goal, I'm just going to
merge these together Control or Command E, my main goal is going to be creating a little banner, 4:30 but I want it to be behind my subject. Okay, so if you want something between
your subject and the background, 4:36 first thing we need to do is cut our subject out. So let's go ahead and duplicate our subject. I'm going to click and drag this to the New
Layer icon, 4:43 and we're going to go to Select and then down to select Subject, right here. Now this is a new addition to Photoshop, it works extremely well, 4:51 and you can
see, it did a great job selecting our subject. Now we have a couple areas that aren't exactly what we want. 4:56 We don't want to select the subject and background. So I'm going to
grab our little lasso tool, simple lasso tool. 5:02 I'm going to hold Alt or Option with the Lasso Tool, which brings up like my middle minus icon. 5:07 And then I can just circle
right around the areas I don't want included. So Alt or Option minus those out. 5:14 And we can see in this case, it didn't include this area. The reason is because it looks very
similar to my background, 5:20 so it wasn't sure which is my subject, not a big deal. Still, with the Lasso Tool, I'm going to hold down the Shift key, 5:26 which is going to allow
me to add to my selection, and I'm just going to simply paint right over here. 5:32 There we go, Alt or Option to minus out if I do anything wrong. Now I'm not worried about making
this perfect, 5:37 because we're going to update our selection in just a little bit, but I do want to make sure that it actually includes my subject. 5:44 Hold the spacebar down,
we're going to simply move right over here, and then we're going to add to this selection here. 5:49 So hold Shift, again, still with my Lasso Tool, and just add my selection right
there. 5:56 Fantastic. And let's go ahead and just minus this area out. Perfect. Now this is looking really good. 6:02 However, I always recommend using Select and Mask when making
selections in Photoshop, it just cleans things up substantially. 6:09 So we have our selection, let's go up here. You can either click on your Select and Mask option, which will be
visible if you still have your Lasso Tool selected, 6:17 or you can simply go to Select and then down here to Select and Mask. There we go. Now we have a few different views here.
6:24 I recommend just looking at it On White for now. You can do On Layers, but you'll see the background layer. 6:29 So let's make sure it's set to On White. Okay, you can adjust
your opacity here if you want to. 6:35 And right here where it says Global Refinements, this is where we're going to add some feathering, so you can just see it kind of softens the
edge up. 6:42 Now with a little bit of feathering, let's go ahead and bring this up, and contrast, 6:48 it kind of like makes the edge quite a bit cleaner. So let's go ahead, we'll
just show you the original. 6:53 So let's go to Show Original, versus this one. Let's go in here and take a look at this. So Show Original, 6:59 and then right down here, let's go
to Show Original. So you can see the original kind of has a little bit of a jagged edge to the selection, 7:06 which doesn't look natural, and then there's the after. So we just
want to add some feathering and some contrast, 7:12 and that will help, in general, make the subject just cut out a little bit better. Now if you need to, you can also shift your
edge in a little bit here. 7:20 Okay, and you can see, that's going to include or disclude our background, so we can just shift that image right in there. 7:27 And that's looking
pretty good. So relatively quickly, we're able to cut our subject out of the background using Select, Subject, 7:33 and then here in Select and Mask as well. So let's go ahead,
we're going to go to our Output Settings, 7:39 and then we're just going to say output this to a Layer Mask. It's just going to automatically place a layer mask on my layer. 7:45
So let's go ahead and hit OK. Fantastic. So now here, we have our background. 7:52 And then we have our subject cut out. So I just moved my subject around, and check that out, we
have a duplicate of our subject. 7:58 So if I create a layer in between those, and let's just say I grabbed the Brush tool, I can now paint anything that I want on my image, 8:06
and it's going to look like it's between my subject and the background, okay? So this would be a great opportunity to add text, 8:12 graphics, banners, all those sorts of things.
And that's exactly what we're going to do. So I want to create a little banner ad right behind our subject. 8:19 We're going to say that this is like a, you know, a splash page for
a website or something like that. So let's go ahead, we're going to grab our Rectangle tool. 8:26 So let's go to our Rectangle tool, okay, and I'm going to simply click and drag to
make a nice rectangle behind our subject. 8:33 Now keep in mind, you can change this rectangle at any time, so you're not stuck with exactly whatever shape that you create. 8:40 We
do have the option to round the edges right here. As long as this chain link is on, it's going around all the edges at the same time. 8:46 So let's go ahead and just click here and
drag out around the edges, okay? Now we have a few options for filling this rectangle. 8:54 Right now it's set to Fill Nothing. I'm just going to change this to white, and then the
stroke, I'm going to change this to white as well. 9:01 We can change these properties at any time by going to our Properties window. Again, to get to that, just go to Window and
then down to Properties. 9:08 Okay, so this is looking pretty good as of now. I'm going to hit Control or Command H to hide my selection, 9:13 and here we can see what it looks
like behind our subject. Fantastic. Now we can see in this area, it doesn't look perfect. 9:22 The reason is my cutout is just a little bit too small. So I'm going to go to my
selection again, 9:27 we're going to go to Select and then down to Select and Mask, okay? And then we're going to put this On Layers. 9:34 Check this out, here at my Global
Refinements, I can now shift the edge. We're just going to bring a little bit of feathering, 9:39 a little bit of contrast in there as well. And I can shift my edge back out again
there, if I need to, and you can see clean setup. 9:46 All right, let's make sure our Output is set to Layer Mask and hit OK. 9:51 Fantastic. So this is looking pretty good. Now
obviously, at this point, it's just a white banner behind our subject. 9:57 It looks good, but I want to kind of make it a little bit more interesting, I want to do a background
effect. 10:04 So I want, in this area, to kind of look like a blurred window to be able to see the background of our photo. 10:10 So what we're going to do is temporarily make this
invisible. I'm actually just going to duplicate my background layer, so Control or Command J is going to duplicate my background. 10:18 Now, I want to add a blur to this, but I
want to be able to change that blur at any time. So to do that, we're going to use this Smart Object. 10:26 Let's go ahead and right-click here, and we're going to go to Convert to
a Smart Object. 10:33 There we go. So now that this is a smart object, I can apply a blur to it. We're just going to do Fill, Filter, Blur, and then Gaussian Blur. 10:43 There we
go. And that looks pretty good. So we have a nice blurred background, but I only want this to show up where this rectangle is. 10:49 So let's go ahead and take this and click right
above the rectangle, and then we're going to use what's called a clipping mask. 10:56 Now a clipping mask will actually allow us to make one layer only visible where another layer
is already visible. 11:03 It's really easy to do, just right-click on your layer and go down to where you see Create Clipping Mask. 11:09 There we go. Now, this background is only
visible inside of this rectangle. 11:15 How cool is that. And if I move the rectangle around, look at this, it moves where everything is visible as well. 11:22 So it's a really,
really cool effect. Now let's just go ahead and place it right there. You can also double-click on your Gaussian Blur here, 11:29 and then change the blur at any time. So you can
have like a super blurred effect, less of a blurred effect, 11:35 all this can be changed. Now the only like one thing that I am not in love with right now 11:40 is that you can
