sitting in that car and nothing else in the image has changed. At this point, you can make any other edits you like, such as changing facial expressions or making adjustments to
the clothing or the car. If you're happy with your image, you can click the Download button to save it to your device, or you can click on the Share button and choose Open in
Express to create a social media post. If you would like to add text or make small, targeted adjustments, I recommend taking the image into Photoshop Web to keep your adjustments
editable. 04:08 Bonus tip! Compose your album cover design in Photoshop on the web From here, you can use the Type Tool; select one of the Styles or Presets - I'll choose this
preset, and I'll type the name of the album. I'll call it 'Generations.' You may need to drag on the transformation handles to resize the Text Box to fit the entire name in one
line. If your text is too large, you can highlight it and reduce the font size from the Taskbar. You can choose a point size from the dropdown, or you can type your own. In this
case, I'll type 90 pt, and I'll press Enter to apply the changes. The text looks like it's the right size. Now, I'll choose a font color by clicking on the Swatch. I'll make it
white and I'll click on the Done button. Then with the Move Tool, I'll drag down to place the album title into position. This will keep the text editable, and you can make any
other adjustments you like. And when you're done, you can download that image to your device by clicking on the blue Download button on the top right. Now that you know how to
create an album cover using Adobe Firefly, partner models, and Photoshop web, try it with your projects. My name is Jesús Ramirez. Thank you for watching. What you’ll learn
Generate a strong starting image Create an album cover concept using a descriptive prompt, aspect ratio controls, and Firefly image models. Edit images using natural language Move
beyond one-and-done image generation. Describe the changes you want to refine colors, add text, or adjust lighting with intent. Replace people while preserving the scene Upload
reference photos and use prompts to swap faces or subjects while keeping lighting and reflections intact.Bonus tip. After generating your image, bring it into Photoshop on the web
to add editable type and make targeted refinements without flattening your design, or make other adjustments in the Firefly AI photo editor. Instruction and design by Jesús Ramirez
Skills Generative AI Related tutorials Generate images from text in Adobe Firefly Video6 min Generate stunning images with prompts and quick edits Video3 min Edit photos with
Generative Fill in Adobe Firefly Video6 min Was this tutorial helpful? Adobe, Inc. Creativity & Design PDF & E-signatures Marketing & Commerce Learn & Support Home Learn Firefly
See how different AI models transform the same prompt Firefly Learn See how different AI models transform the same prompt Use partner models in Firefly for rich and varied results
in Boards and other modules — across multiple content types. Published February 12, 2026 View transcript 00:01 Introduction If you've ever wished for more variety in your
AI-generated content, Adobe Firefly now has you covered. With partner modeling at your fingertips, you can unlock new levels of creativity without having to hop to different apps
or websites. Hi everyone! My name is Angelo Montilla from montilladesign.com. Over the next few minutes, I'll show you how to use partner models available on Adobe Firefly to
generate stunning images, videos and vector content. Let's jump in and see what we can create. 00:31 Accessing partner models and comparing image results On the Firefly site, in
the Text to image module, I generated a set of toucan images using Adobe Firefly 4 partner models to compare results. To access partner models, click on the Model dropdown under
the General settings tab and add them to Firefly. I've already added Google Imagen 4 Google Imagen 3 and GPT image. I'll choose the Google Imagen 4 model to generate an image of
toucans sitting on a branch in a rainforest. Imagen 4 provides results with strong depth of field and photo-like compositions, as you can see in the result here. Next, I'll switch
over to the GPT model and generate an image using the same text prompt. You can see in the example, the toucans have a high level of realism in their feathers and overall texture.
Partner models are available in Text to image, Text to video, Text to vector, Image to video, and Firefly Boards. The difference between Firefly and the partner models is Adobe
models produce results that are safe for commercial use. I really like these image options, so I'll download them and use them in a mood board exploration project with Firefly
Boards. 01:43 Building a mood board and generating mockups in Firefly Boards Let's jump over to Boards next. I've switched over to Firefly Boards, and I'm building out a mood board
for a brand called Toucan Clothing. I've added the toucan images, as well as a photo from Adobe Stock that I'd like to use as a composition reference for a mockup that I'm working
on. I'll click the Prompt bar down below, and use a couple of the partner models to compare variation styles. First, I'll choose Imagen 3 and I'll enter my text prompt description.
Under the Image label I'll click on this icon and sample the stock image of the woman holding a totebag to add it as a composition reference. I'll leave the Aspect ratio at Square
and click Generate to see the result. Not satisfied with the result? Click Generate again to generate another. To place the image on the canvas, click on it once and then choose
Place on canvas, drop it in and resize it accordingly and then use the Move Tool to position it in place. I really like using Imagen 3 for mockup images, because of its powerful
ability to generate content with realistic scenes and cinematic storytelling. I'll switch the partner model to Flux 1.1 Pro and generate an image using the same prompt and
composition reference. Here's the Flux 1.1 Pro result. I'll click on it once and place it on my canvas as well. And much like I did in the first example, I'll resize it and
position it in place. Colors with this partner model tend to be rich, but more muted compared to Imagen and other models. 03:14 Creating logo concepts with partner models and
editing mockups Next, I'll create a toucan logo concept that I can place on one of the totebags for added inspiration. For this, I'll be using a partner model called Ideogram 3.0.
I'll click the model dropdown and choose it from my partner model options. This model in particular leans into stylized illustration, so it's perfect to generate logo concepts. In
the prompt field I'll replace the text prompt and clear the Reference image thumbnail. Instead, I'll click on the Eyedropper Tool to reference style attributes from one of the
toucan images. For example, if I click the first one, I can choose Vivid palette and Toucans on a branch. Once again, I'll leave the Aspect ratio on Square and click Generate to
see my result. Now I can place the toucan logo concept on the board and over one of the totebag mockup images. With the image selected, I'll click the Remove background icon from
the Contextual Task Bar to remove the white background. Now I can click and drag to resize the logo and rotate it for added realism. I'll increase the size a little bit more, and
the mockup is complete. It's important to note that as of now, Boards offers more partner models than the other Firefly modules. Also, generative credits vary based on the partner
model you choose. Now that my mockup is complete, I'd like to bring it to life using a partner model in Text to video. Let's do that next. 04:40 Generating video from images using
text to video models On the Firefly site, in the Text to video module, click the Model dropdown and choose one of the available partner models. In this example, I'll choose Veo 2
by Google. under the Aspect ratio, I'll choose 9x16 Vertical. I'll add my text prompt to the Prompt Bar, and then I'll drag and drop the mockup reference image as the first frame.
In the Preview window, you can make your crop adjustments, and then click Generate to see the result. You can see that Veo generates a stunning result that brings my mockup image
to life. This model in particular produces exceptional sharp and fluid results, especially in motion rendering like camera panning, zooming, or object movement. Next, let's jump
over to Firefly's Text to vector, 05:25 Creating vector illustrations with partner models and I'll show you how to create tropical-inspired illustration assets with GPT Image. In
the Text to vector module I'll choose GPT Image from the Partner models. I'll ensure that the Content type is set to Subject, and I'll enter my text prompt. As a last step, I'll
click Generate to see my result. You can see the GPT Image generates a super-detailed set of tropical leaf illustrations that I can open directly in Adobe Illustrator. You should
now have a better understanding of how to use partner models in Adobe Firefly. Give them a try on your next project and explore new ways to create content. Again, my name is Angelo
Montilla, and I'll see you in the next video. Note: Stock assets provided are for practice purposes only. See terms. What you’ll learn Access a variety of partner models Choose
from leading partner AI models directly within Firefly to broaden your creative results and styles. See our guide to partner models in Adobe products for model details and
generative credit usage. Compare outputs for style and quality Run the same prompt through different models to discover fresh visual approaches. Apply models in Boards and across
Firefly modules Use partner models in Boards, Text to image, Text to video, Image to video, and Text to vector to enrich any creative project. Instruction by Angelo Montilla Design
by Angelo Montilla Adobe Stock Contributors Kawsar Hamid Chabi Hardvicore Lensora Pernsanitfoto Skills Generative AI Related tutorials Try Firefly Image Model 4 for richer, more
refined results Video4 min Combine images with AI to spark new visual directions Video4 min Shape concepts and moodboards in Firefly Boards Video4 min Was this tutorial helpful?
Adobe, Inc. Creativity & Design PDF & E-signatures Marketing & Commerce Learn & Support Home Learn Firefly Generative credits essentials Firefly Learn Generative credits essentials
Learn what generative credits are and how to use them for generative AI features in Creative Cloud products. Published December 8, 2025 View transcript 00:01 Introduction Creative
Cloud products now include powerful new features using generative AI to enhance and create images, video, audio, and more. Adobe plans include Generative Credits, giving you access
to these new features and tools. Hi, I'm Seán Duggan with the Adobe Learn team. Let's look at how you can use Generative Credits, 00:19 Overview of generative credits and AI
features the difference between standard and premium generative features, and how to keep track of how many credits you've used. There are many AI features in Adobe applications
that can assist you with common tasks, like creating selections or removing backgrounds. Features like these that use AI in an assistive way don't use Generative Credits. 00:43
Understanding generative AI and how credits are used Generative AI allows you to create new content. It can extend photo boundaries, generate entire images, or transform a sketch
into a video. The Generative fill tool in Photoshop is a good example of a generative AI feature. The high-quality output from generative AI is processed in the cloud, and it
requires a lot of computing power, and that's what Generative Credits are for. Generative Credits are like tokens at an arcade. The pinball machine might use one token, but the
adventure game that uses a virtual reality headset might use multiple tokens. 01:21 Standard vs premium generative features explained There are two types of generative AI features
- standard and premium. Think of the standard features as pinball machines and the premium features as virtual reality games. Most standard generative AI features, such as
Generative fill in Photoshop or Text to vector in Illustrator, will use one credit per generation, and many features create three variations to choose from. With some plans, you
have unlimited access to these standard generative features. Premium generative AI features, which generate outputs like video, audio, or translations, will cost additional credits
because they require much more computing power. In Photoshop, Illustrator, InDesign, and Premiere, 02:04 Checking and managing generative credits click the Home icon in the upper
left corner to go to the Home screen for the app. Then click your Adobe ID icon in the upper right corner to check how many Generative Credits are available. You can also see your
Generative Credits by clicking your Adobe ID icon on the Firefly website, or on your Account Overview page at www.adobe.com. Your Generative Credit count will reset each month
02:29 Credit reset rules and upgrading plans based on your plan's monthly reset date. Unused Generative Credits don't roll over into the next month. If you need additional credits,
you can upgrade your plan or purchase an additional Firefly plan directly in the app or from your Account Overview page on www.adobe.com. Now you know the essentials of Generative
Credits. If you haven't explored our generative features yet, give them a try and see what new creative paths you can discover. What you learned Use generative credits to access
generative AI features There are two types of generative AI features: standard and premium. Most standard generative features, like Generative Fill in Photoshop, use one credit per
generation. With some plans, you have unlimited access to these standard generative features. Premium generative features that create outputs like video and audio will use more
credits because they require much more computing power. Check your available credits You can check your available credits by clicking your Adobe ID icon on the Home Screen of some
Adobe apps, the Firefly website, or your account overview page at adobe.com. Your available credits will reset each month. Learn more about generative credits access and use.
Instruction and photography by Seán Duggan Adobe Stock Contributors Cookie Studio peopleimages.com ZoomTeam Blackboxguild PD-Media Damir Khabirov Skills Generative AI Related
tutorials See how different AI models transform the same prompt Video7 min Export and share content from Adobe Firefly Video3 min Tip: Watch linked assets auto-update in Firefly
Boards Video3 min Was this tutorial helpful? Adobe, Inc. Creativity & Design PDF & E-signatures Marketing & Commerce Learn & Support Home Learn Firefly Create engaging B-roll
footage from text prompts Firefly Learn Create engaging B-roll footage from text prompts Discover how to generate expressive B-roll using references to objects, locations,
aesthetics, and mood. Published December 8, 2025 View transcript 00:01 Introduction Have you ever needed to create B-roll for a project you're working on? My name is Brian Wood.
I'm a content strategist for the Adobe MAX Creativity Conference. I've got a video project I'm working on, and I need some B-roll to show at the beginning. I need some atmospheric
shots of the scene I'm thinking of, and I want to include some camera motion along with any objects moving. Firefly gives us that control. 00:20 Setting up text to video and
initial prompt Starting on the Firefly homepage, I'll select Video, then Text to video (beta). And if you want to start the video by giving it an image for your first frame, you
can do that. That's called Frame right down here. I'm just going to use a Prompt. I'll start by setting a few options, one of them being the Aspect ratio. I use this B-roll for a
travel video or a vlog and it's going to be viewed on a device, so I'll use 9:16. Then I'll start by adding a Prompt. I want to create a scene and convey a specific type of motion,
camera angle and different things. I'm going to try a simpler Prompt to start with and then iterate on it. I'll start with 'Giant waves crashing on rocks below a lighthouse'. Right
here, instead of just a generic lighthouse, you can actually reference a known object or a geographical location. The results will be accurate. This can make it even more perfect
for a B-roll if you need accurate imagery. And then Generate to see what we get. 01:20 Refining prompts for motion, detail, and realism After playing the video, I know I want to
take this further, so I'm going to try adding more detail to the Prompt and Generate as I add to it to see what I get. So, things like the shot type description, what action is
going on, what's the aesthetic, etc. - more detail. I might want to change the Shot size, maybe like a Long shot. I can change the Camera angle and I can actually add movement. I
want the shot to Zoom out. And once again, Generate to see what we get. I like this video. I might tweak the Prompt to change the flight of the bird because it's a little
distracting. 01:54 Using advanced settings and seed for variations One thing I want to point out, if you look down here at Advanced settings, you're going to see what's called
Seed. Every time, if I go back in history here a little bit, every time you go and Generate based on changes you've made, that Seed stays consistent. So, if I come back to the
final here, if you don't want the video to be based on the previous generation, you can actually remove that Seed, Generate again, and it pretty much starts from scratch. 02:20
Adjusting camera settings and generating final clips I like that one. Now what we can do is we can go in and from that one, try changing up the shot. Maybe by changing the Shot
size, Camera angle, and the type of Motion. If I want to generate from this one, I keep the Seed there and Generate. Now what I can do is go to each of these and Download and I've
got some B-roll. Once I get all my B-roll, I can head over to my editor of choice, like Adobe Express, and add them to my project. Now it's time for you to create your own B-roll.
Get yourself a Prompt, start iterating on it, change things up, and see what you come up with. What you’ll learn Get started with Text to Video (beta) Choose an aspect ratio and
type a simple prompt to start generating your video. Take your video further Add details like shot type, action, aesthetic, and mood. Adjust shot size — like a long shot — and add
camera moves like zoom in, tilt up, or static framing for the look you want. For more prompting tips, see Writing effective text prompts for video generation. Build up your B-roll
library Download your best video generations and edit them in Adobe Express or your favorite video editor. Instruction by Brian Wood Skills Generative AI Video Related tutorials
Create cinematic video from prompts and keyframes Video5 min Craft a captivating launch teaser with Adobe Firefly Video3 min Turn a sketch into video seamlessly in Firefly Video3
min Was this tutorial helpful? Adobe, Inc. Creativity & Design PDF & E-signatures Marketing & Commerce Learn & Support Home Learn Firefly Create cinematic video from prompts and
keyframes Firefly Learn Create cinematic video from prompts and keyframes Guide Firefly's video output with prompts, motion settings, and still images as start and end reference
frames. Published December 8, 2025 Guide Firefly’s video output with prompts, motion settings, and still images as start and end reference frames. View transcript 00:01
Introduction Welcome to the magic of generative video in Adobe Firefly. I'm Jesús Ramirez. In this video, we'll help a friend create a promotional YouTube video for her running and
fitness program. We'll use Adobe Firefly's Text to video feature to generate custom cinematic B-roll. Let's jump right in. 00:17 Getting started with text to video and basic
prompts Go to the Video tab and choose Text to video. This brings us to the Text to video interface. To generate great videos, write clear and descriptive prompts. We'll begin with
a concise and specific description of the subject. I'll type 'woman kneeling tying shoelaces'. Before you generate, be sure to change the Resolution to 540p. You'll get faster
results, and once you have a prompt that works, you can increase the Resolution. Then click the blue Generate button. Firefly will take just a few moments to generate the video.
Click the Play button to preview it. The results are impressive, but generic. 00:59 Improving video prompts with structure and detail formula They don't capture the idea and mood I
had in mind, but it's a good starting point from which we can build. Let's be more descriptive and include vivid details and context in the prompt. Here's a prompt formula to keep
in mind. Shot type description + character + action + location + aesthetic. If you include these five elements, you will generate outstanding videos. I'll paste the prompt I
pre-wrote and here it is color-coded with the corresponding steps of the generation formula. Feel free to pause the video and analyze it to understand how it works. Next, I'll
Generate again. And in a few moments, we should see a much better generation. Here it is. I'll click on the Play button, and it looks just incredible. Next, let's take advantage of
the General settings panel on the left. 01:50 Adjusting general settings and camera controls These options control the format and the overall quality of the video. We'll use the
Firefly Video model. It's default, and we can use the results commercially. Under Resolution, I'll keep it at 540p for now. It's faster to render and good enough for previewing.
For the Aspect ratio, I'll select Widescreen (16:9), which is perfect for YouTube videos and any horizontal content. Now, let's look at the Camera settings. This is where we guide
the camera's behavior and style. They help shape the feel of the video. For a Shot size, we'll choose Medium shot. This frames the subject's body and environment without being too
close or too far. For Camera angle, let's go with Low angle shot. This gives our runner a strong, heroic feel. And for Motion, I'll choose Tilt up. This will create a dynamic
camera move, starting from her shoes and moving up towards her face. At this time, you can only select one option for camera motion, but you can always call out another in the
prompt. I'll add 'Handheld motion' to give the video a more organic, natural feel. Then I'll click Generate again. And this video looks amazing. The wind, the camera move, the lens
flare, it all comes together beautifully. 03:09 Using start and end frames for precise video control But that's not all. Adobe Firefly gives you even more control. If you want to
use a photo as a starting frame and have Firefly animate it from your prompt, click this icon. Find an image on your device. I'll use this closeup of a runner tying her shoes, and
I'll Generate using the same prompt. And in a few moments, Firefly will generate a video using this image as the first frame, and its spot on. Best of all, you can also upload the
last frame to control how the video ends. Click on this icon and choose your final frame. I'll use this photo of the runner tying her shoes as my final frame. I'll keep the same
prompt, and I'll Generate. Firefly now creates a video that starts with the image I uploaded earlier and ends with this final frame, giving you full control over both ends of the
shot. It looks fantastic. The pacing is smooth, the transition is clean, and the video ends exactly the way I envisioned. Now that you know how to generate videos in Adobe Firefly,
try turning your wildest ideas into a reality with the Text to image feature. Again, my name is Jesús Ramirez. Thank you for watching. Note: Stock assets provided are for practice
purposes only. See terms. What you’ll learn Write clear, visual prompts Combine shot type, subject, action, location, and aesthetic to guide Firefly’s video generation. Check out
our article on writing effective video prompts Dial in the camera settings Customize shot size, angle, and movement — or add motion cues to your prompt for extra style. Control the
first and last frame Add still images as keyframes to anchor the start and end of your video and better match your creative vision. Instruction by Jesús Ramirez Adobe Stock
Contributors Nenetus Related tutorials Craft a captivating launch teaser with Adobe Firefly Video3 min Enhance your Firefly videos with pro techniques Video7 min Turn a sketch into
video seamlessly in Firefly Video3 min Was this tutorial helpful? Adobe, Inc. Creativity & Design PDF & E-signatures Marketing & Commerce Learn & Support Home Learn Premiere
Perfect your audio mix Premiere Learn Perfect your audio mix Ensure your audio is clear and well balanced using options in the Essential Sound panel. Published January 26, 2026
View transcript 00:01 Introduction Hey, hey, hey, I'm Hallease. Welcome back. There's a lot you can do with audio in Premiere Pro, but there're a few steps you can take to make
sure your audio clips sound clear and well-balanced. For example, when recording audio, some parts of a clip are quieter than others. If a person who is speaking is moving while
talking, there will be variations in the loudness as it plays. Let's zoom in on this audio track and look at the Waveform. 00:20 Understanding audio waveforms and loudness issues
Do you see the peaks and valleys? This is a visual representation of an audio clip's loudness. Now let's open the Essential Sound panel by going to Window, 00:29 Balancing audio
with the Essential Sound panel Essential Sound. Here we can make audio adjustments to different clips. To make the peaks and valleys more uniform, we'll just select the audio clip
or clips we want to match, open the Loudness section and then select Auto-Match. If we play it back, we can hear that the volume is more consistent now. Auto-Match isn't just for
dialog. We can also apply it to music, effects or ambient noise. The audio mix for this video now sounds so much better, 00:55 Fixing music length problems in a video but there is
a tiny, small issue with the music. This song is much longer than the video. Finding a perfect match is incredibly time consuming and often you'll see creators work around this
challenge by repeating one song, using multiple songs, or cutting a song awkwardly in the middle. 01:15 Using the Remix tool to match music to your edit Thankfully, we have the
Remix Tool, which allows you to take any song you've added to the Timeline and make it the exact length you need for your project. Premiere Pro analyzes the song and then
automatically makes cuts, removes measures, and realigns the song into a brand-new version that sounds as seamless as the original. The Remix Tool is found within the Toolbar under
the Ripple Edit Tool. Once selected, simply drag the music clip to where you want on the Timeline and let go. Premiere Pro does the rest for you. 01:47 Audio workflow recap and
next steps Let's review. You can correct audio loudness variations using the Auto-Match feature in the Essential Sound Panel. And you can use the Remix Tool to effortlessly adjust
the length of a song to match a video's length. We've covered quite a bit throughout these videos, but all of this means nothing if we don't export. So that's what we'll cover
next. I'll see you over there. Note: Stock assets provided are for practice purposes only. See terms. What you'll learn Auto-Match clip loudness Correct variations in audio clip
loudness using the Auto-Match feature in the Essential Sound panel. Adjust music length Use the Remix tool to change the length of any song so it matches the duration of your
video. Instruction by Hallease Narvaez Footage by Valentina Vee Adobe Stock Contributors Frequently Asked Music Blackboxguild Daozlimited Skills Audio editing Audio effects Related
tutorials Mix audio like a pro Video4 min Adding sound effects to enhance your travel videos Video4 min Bring your travel videos to life with music Video2 min Was this tutorial
helpful? Adobe, Inc. Creativity & Design PDF & E-signatures Marketing & Commerce Learn & Support Home Learn Premiere How to create a camera push effect. Premiere Learn How to
create a camera push effect. The Unlock: How to create a camera push effect. Published February 23, 2026 Note: This file is made for desktop use. Share link to access later. This
tip from Ben Watkins shows you how to isolate objects on separate layers in Adobe Photoshop and set them in motion in Adobe Premiere to give the appearance of zooming in on a
scene. Isolate image elements. In Photoshop, duplicate the Background layer and hide the original layer. With the Pen tool, create a path around the athlete and name the path in
the Paths panel (Window > Paths). Press the Escape key twice on your keyboard to exit the current path. Then create a new path around the hoop and name it. Select the athlete path
from the Paths panel and choose Make Selection from the flyout menu. Choose Edit > Content-Aware Fill to fill the athlete. The green overlay shows the areas that Photoshop samples
from when filling the selection. Brush over the green to subtract from the sampled area, or press Alt (Windows) or Option (macOS) to add to it as you brush. The Preview window
shows the results as you work. When you’re done filling the area, set the output to the Current Layer and click OK. Pro tip: To get pixel-perfect results, try restoration tools
like the Clone Stamp tool or a simple brush. Prepare the layers. In the Paths panel, select the hoop path you made in the previous step, then choose Make Selection from the flyout
menu. Switch to the Layers panel, select the new background layer, and use Edit > Copy to copy the selected hoop, then Edit > Paste to paste the hoop on its own layer. Select the
original Background layer, copy the selection of the athlete, and then paste it onto a new layer. Drag the layers to rearrange them if necessary. Finish the design. From the Paths
panel, make a selection from the hoop path and select the new background layer. Use Content-Aware Fill to remove the hoop, leaving the fence and sky. Choose Edit > Sky Replacement
to replace the sky with a more interesting one. This process automatically creates a mask for the fence you can repurpose to make separate layers for the fence and sky. Add text
above the layers using the Type tool. We liked the Permanent Marker font. All of the image elements should now be on separate layers. Name each layer so it’s easier to work with
them in Premiere. Finally, choose File > Save As > Photoshop to save the file in PSD format and preserve the layers. Set up your motion project. In Premiere, create a new project
and import the PSD you created. Choose Import As > Sequence from the Import window and make sure all layers are checked. Also, make sure Footage Dimension is set to Document Size
to match the file you created in Photoshop. Expand the Bin in the Project panel to locate the Sequence Premiere created from the layers in the PSD. Double-click the Sequence to add
it to the timeline. The layer order of the Sequence matches the layer order of your PSD. Make things move. Select the Sky layer and move the playhead to the beginning of the
timeline. In the Effect Controls panel, click the Scale stopwatch to create a keyframe with the scale of 100. Click the Go To Out button under the preview to move the playhead to
the last frame of the sequence. Create a new keyframe with a scale of 110. Click the Go To In button to move the playhead back to the first frame. Then select the Scale keyframes
for the Sky layer and copy them (Edit > Copy). Next, select the Fence layer, click the Scale label in the Effect Controls panel, and paste the keyframes from the Sky layer (Edit >
Paste). Change the value for the end frame to 115. Paste the keyframes to the remaining layers and change the end frame scale value for each. Hoop: 125, Player and Text: 130.
Export and share. Choose File > Export > Media and change the filename and location if desired. Then select a format — H.264 works well across platforms — and click Export. Related
tutorials Free analog video glitch pack. Article3 min Elevate your project with cinematic video transitions Video5 min Apply effects to multiple clips using an adjustment layer
Video5 min Was this tutorial helpful? Adobe, Inc. Creativity & Design PDF & E-signatures Marketing & Commerce Learn & Support Home Learn Premiere Edit videos and censor profanity
with text-based editing Premiere Learn Edit videos and censor profanity with text-based editing Learn how to use the Text panel to create and refine your rough cut and censor
unsavory language. Published January 12, 2026 View transcript 00:01 Introduction If you'd like to learn how to quickly turn a clip like this: "What the flip flopping dang dang darn
are you talking about?" Into this: "What the ... are you talking about?" without having to manually go in and adjust the audio for every single unsavory word, then I have great
news for you. I'm Sarah, and I'm going to show you how to use Premiere's Text panel to assemble your video, rearrange clips, and make sure your content stays profanity free using
the Censor Tool. 00:29 Edit your video by editing the text First things first. Let's go into Premiere and import our footage. On the Import screen under Settings, we will enable
the Automatic transcript option. As you might be able to guess, this will make sure our clips are automatically transcribed as they're pulled into the program. Then we'll go up to
the Window menu and open up the Text-Based Editing Workspace. When we drag our imported clip down to the Timeline, the automatic transcription will show here in the Text panel. We
will uncheck Follow active monitor down here so that the transcript stays focused on the Timeline transcript while we edit. When we move the Cursor over the transcript, each word
gets highlighted, and clicking on a word moves the Playhead to where that word is being said in the Timeline. And the reverse is also true. If we move the Playhead, the Cursor in
the Text panel moves. We can assemble a sequence for this take by going through the text, and if there's a word or even a full sentence we'd like to totally remove, we can select
that here in the transcript and delete it by hitting the Backspace key. We can do the same with pauses, which are represented by the bracketed ellipsis. As you can see, when we
delete those, we create a cut in the video, and the sequence will continue to change based on our edits to the text. Using this method, we can go through and get a quick rough cut
of our video edit. 01:52 Build your own custom sensor list Now let's go in and get rid of all those flipping swears. Sorry, I mean those ... swears. Up here under the Ellipsis
button, we can see that we have a Censored words list. This list lets us add our own list of words we want to censor, or we can import a list if we have one. Let's go ahead and add
those and then we'll select Save. Now when we go up to the Filter button, we can click Censored words to highlight any of the words in our list that show up in the transcript.
02:24 Automatically apply a bleep effect Then we'll go up to Apply Effect and select one of the choices here. There are a few preloaded options, and we can also add our own if we
have one. Let's go with the Bleep. It's a classic. Selecting the Apply button will censor the selected word, and Apply to all, will put the effect on every word in the transcript
that appears on the Censored words list. When we look at the Timeline and playback the video, we can see where those effects have been automatically applied over all those words.
"What the ... What the ... ... are you talking about? ... flop. And there we go, a perfectly good G-rated video. Incorporating text-based editing into your post-production process
can save you a lot of ... time. Happy editing! Note: Stock assets provided are for practice purposes only. See terms. What you’ll learn Import and transcribe your clips
automatically Enable automatic transcription to create an editable text transcription of the dialogue in your clips. Edit your video by editing the text Use the Text-Based Editing
workspace to assemble and refine your sequence. Remove pauses and trim or reorder sentences from the transcript and your cuts instantly update in the timeline. Build your custom
censor list Add the words you want to censor, or import and existing list. Save your list for use in future edits. Automatically apply a bleep effect Choose from standard effects
like bleep or silence, or add your own custom sound to censor all flagged words at once. Instruction by Sarah John Skills Video editing Audio effects Sequences Related tutorials
Improve video accessibility using captioning tools Video3 min Why Setta Studio dives happily into the unknown. Article11 min Video editing learning guide Video3 min Was this
tutorial helpful? Adobe, Inc. Creativity & Design PDF & E-signatures Marketing & Commerce Learn & Support Home Learn Premiere Add video effects and transitions in Premiere on
mobile Premiere Learn Add video effects and transitions in Premiere on mobile Learn how to add video effects and transitions in Premiere on mobile to enhance your edits with
professional polish. Published March 18, 2026 View transcript 00:01 Introduction [Kelsey Brannan]: Premiere mobile includes a free library of transitions and effects, including
light leaks, zooms, shakes, and more to help you stylize your edits. My name is Kelsey Brannan, and you may know me as Premiere Gal on YouTube. In today's video, I'm going to show
you how to quickly insert transitions between clips and how to apply effects to individual clips to spice up your edits. 00:24 Add transitions between clips Here inside my
Timeline, I have a bunch of clips showing how I made these brownie pinecones. And this was edited together quickly using one of the YouTube Short templates. But this template
didn't come with any transitions or effects, so let's add some in to spice it up. You can see here in the Timeline that between each of the clips is a transition point. If you want
to add a transition at that point, just tap that icon between the clips, and then you can choose a transition from this new panel that pops up from the bottom. You can scroll down
to preview them all. Let's try the Push Up and that'll preview it for a moment. If you want to apply the same transition to all of the cut points, you can click this icon here, and
it will apply that transition to all of the cut points. If I close this down, you'll see that there's a push-up at every transition. [music] But you may not want that. In this
case, I want to apply unique transitions at just a few different cut points. So I'm going to press this Undo icon. And that will remove that transition at all the cut points but
will keep it at that original one that we selected. [music] Now let's go further down and apply another transition. I thought it would be cool to add a twirl transition between
this shot and the shot of the chocolate completely melted, and the brownie getting dipped in the chocolate. So let's tap this cut point and let's scroll down to Twist Left. And
there we go, that's the result. You can also adjust the Duration of the transition by sliding the slider to the left to make it quicker, or slower by dragging it to the right.
Let's see how that looks. [music] I think it looks good. When applying transitions, you don't want to apply a transition at every single cut point because that can be visually
