Support Home Learn Firefly How to build a seamless looping video for social Firefly Learn How to build a seamless looping video for social Generate a transition in Firefly between
different frames, then create a polished loop in Premiere to boost watch time. Published April 16, 2026 View transcript 00:01 Intro and meet author Kelsey Brannan [Kelsey Brannan]:
Hi friends. My name is Kelsey Brannan, and you may know me as Premiere Gal on YouTube. In today's video, I'm going to show you how to create a seamlessly looping social video using
Adobe Firefly and Premiere. Let's jump on in. You might ask, why create a loop on a social media video? Well, besides the fact that it just makes your video more aesthetically
pleasing, loops actually increase watch time retention, and rewatches on social media. Because the algorithm favors seamless motion. And this technique I'm about to show you will
work on any type of edit. So follow along these steps and you can make a seamless loop on your next edit. Here Premiere Pro, I have a completed edit that me and my team made for
socials, and it's about King Kong stalking me in New York City. Now, if you're inside the Program window, which I have here on the right, down at the bottom, you'll find this Loop
Playback icon. Click on that so it will loop the playback inside of your Timeline. Let's just play the ending so you can see how it ends, and then loops back to the beginning.
[music] [Voice-over Kelsey]: I love visit... [Kelsey B.]: That end shot of King Kong didn't connect to that beginning city shot, it felt abrupt. But we can fix that by creating a
seamless loop. To do that, we need to export a first frame 01:20 Export key frames from your edit and an end frame. For the first frame, we just have to move our Playhead to a
clear shot of King Kong here. I think this looks good. So let's go ahead and click on this little icon here in the Program window called Export Frame, or you can press Shift E, and
let's name this FIRST FRAME. You can save it as a JPEG, and if the file path is incorrect, you can always click on Browse... to save it in a folder that is related to your project.
Now let's go ahead and hit OK. That'll export our FIRST FRAME. Now let's move our Playhead to the very first frame and let's click on Export Frame. This time let's call it LAST
FRAME, and then hit OK. And now let's head on over to Adobe Firefly. From the Firefly homepage go to Generate, 02:10 Generate the transition in Firefly and then select Generate
video. First off, you can choose a video model from this dropdown, including the Adobe Firefly Video model or a variety of partner models listed here. In this case, I'm going to
use the Veo 3.1, then let's select a Resolution. In this case let's use 1080p, and then for Aspect ratio, because I shot this vertical, let's choose Vertical. For Duration, you can
choose 4 seconds, 6 seconds, or 8 seconds. In this case we'll do 8 seconds. And Audio, you have the option to generate some sound as well. In my case I don't need it. So I'm going
to turn this off. And underneath References, this is where we can choose our first and last frame that we exported from Premiere. So let's select the First, Your device, and let's
select our FIRST FRAME.jpg, Open. And let's select the Last. LAST FRAME.jpg, Open. And now from the Prompt field we can type out what we want to happen between these two frames:
"King Kong waves and then the camera pans to the right to the city street view." And then Generate. And here's the result. I think it looks pretty good. The only thing I want to do
inside of Premiere is speed up this transition, because it's a little bit slow. But we can fix that with time remapping. Let's download the generation and head to Premiere. Here
inside my Timeline, you can see that I made a marker where I want to place the generation. You can create a marker just by pressing M on your keyboard. Let's go ahead and let's
drag and drop our generation 04:02 Bonus tip! right here to line up with this marker. And by the way, you need to have the Snap Tool on so that way it'll snap directly to this
marker. So right now when we zoom out you can see the clip is just too long. And that's because this movement is too slow. 04:18 Refine timing for a polished loop So we need to do
some time remapping. So Ctrl-click and then go down to Show Clip Keyframes, Time Remapping, Speed. And this will allow you to press P to use the Pen Tool to create the moment when
you want it to start to speed up. So let's say here. And once it slows down, right about here. So now between these two points we can press V to go back to the Selection Tool and
speed up this part in between. So I adjusted the speed of the clip. Now let's play it back with the Loop Playback on just to see the full picture. [Voice-over Kelsey]: I love
visiting New York City, but why is King Kong still here? Why do you have to choose New York? It's already so crowded here. [Voice-over male]: Should we call somebody? [Voice-over
Kelsey]: I don't know. Just let him do his thing. I just don't understand, why isn't he annoying anyone else? He's just there. [music] [Voice-over Kelsey]: I love visiting New York
City. [Kelsey B.]: There we go. So, as you can see here, the first frame and the last frame of your video can be completely different. But thanks to Adobe Firefly, you can
seamlessly connect them together. And you can apply this to any type of video. For example, if you need a hero video that loops on your website, you can apply the same technique. I
hope this video was useful, and I'll see you next time. Bye! What you’ll learn Export keyframes from your edit Export a clean first and last frame from your Premiere Timeline to
define the start and end of your loop. Generate the transition in Firefly In Firefly, upload your first and last frames in Generate Video. Choose a model, set resolution and
duration, then prompt the motion you want between the two frames to create a seamless transition. Refine timing for a polished loop Place the generated clip in your Premiere
Timeline and use Time Remapping to adjust speed. Fine-tune pacing so the loop flows naturally. Bonus tip: Add a marker in the Timeline and snap the generated clip into place before
fine-tuning speed. Instruction by Kelsey Brannan, Creator of Premiere Gal Skills Generative AI Social media videos Related tutorials Turn one brand-aligned image into a full social
campaign Video8 min Edit photos with Generative Fill in Adobe Firefly Video6 min Generate realistic photos with a prompt formula in Firefly Video6 min Was this tutorial helpful?
Adobe, Inc. Creativity & Design PDF & E-signatures Marketing & Commerce Learn & Support Home Learn Firefly Replace image backgrounds with prompts and reference images Firefly Learn
Replace image backgrounds with prompts and reference images Swap backgrounds, explore variations, and refine lighting and realism using simple text edits. Published April 16, 2026
View transcript 00:01 Intro and meet author Jesús Ramirez [Jesús Ramirez]: I'm Jesús Ramirez. In the next few minutes, I'll show you how to replace backgrounds in Adobe Firefly.
From the Firefly website at firefly.adobe.com, go to the Prompt box, choose Image, then click on the More button, and from here choose the Edit tab. 00:16 Replace a background
using a reference image Now you can upload an image from your Adobe cloud storage, including previous generations or Photoshop cloud documents. In this case, I'll click on Your
device, and I'll select this image of Shoes shot in a lightbox. To replace this image's background, first, select the model you want to use. At the moment, Nano Banana Pro is one
of the better options and it can output at 2K. Next, click the Reference image button and choose the image you want to use as the new background. I'll use another image from my
device. In the Prompt box, simply type: "Replace the background in image 1 with the background in image 2. Keep the content and angle of image one the same." Then click the blue
Generate button. Firefly will then place the new background behind the shoes and match perspective, lighting, and color to create a realistic composite. At this point, you can
click on the original image from the filmstrip to repeat this process to create multiple variations to determine what works best for your project. 01:18 Generate variations and
compare results After generating your second image, you can click on the thumbnails in the filmstrip to compare your variations. 01:24 Refine results with natural language edits
But Firefly does a lot more than simple background replacements. You can edit your generations with natural language commands to get exactly the result you need for your project.
For example, I'll replace this prompt with: "Remove the white horizontal line in the foreground, blur the background, and turn this into a night scene. With dark windows and the
arena's lights spotlighting the shoes." Then I'll Generate. Firefly will quickly make those changes, and we now have a third variation to choose from. By the way, if you're
generating unrealistic results, 01:53 Bonus tip! turn on Use Google Search. It reduces odd or made-up results by using real-world references including current trends, branded
items, and landmarks. This is especially helpful for things that may not have existed during the model's original training. And now that you know how to replace backgrounds in
Adobe Firefly, try it with your photos. Again, I'm Jesús Ramirez. Thank you for watching. What you’ll learn Replace a background using a reference image Upload your image, choose a
model, and add a reference image to guide the new background. Firefly matches angle, lighting, and color for realistic results. Generate variations and compare results You can
upload another background image and generate it again to explore different background options. Compare variations side-by-side to choose the best direction. Refine results with
natural language edits Use plain-language prompts to remove distractions, adjust lighting, or change the scene. Firefly updates your image without starting over. Bonus tip: Turn on
Use Google Search when accuracy matters. It grounds results in real-world references like brands, landmarks, and current trends. Instruction by Jesús Ramirez Photography by Jesús
Ramirez Skills Generative AI Replacing backgrounds Removing backgrounds Related tutorials Turn one brand-aligned image into a full social campaign Video8 min Edit photos with
Generative Fill in Adobe Firefly Video6 min Generate realistic photos with a prompt formula in Firefly Video6 min Was this tutorial helpful? Adobe, Inc. Creativity & Design PDF &
E-signatures Marketing & Commerce Learn & Support Home Learn Firefly Replace image backgrounds with prompts and reference images Firefly Learn Replace image backgrounds with
prompts and reference images Swap backgrounds, explore variations, and refine lighting and realism using simple text edits. Published April 16, 2026 View transcript 00:01 Intro and
meet author Jesús Ramirez [Jesús Ramirez]: I'm Jesús Ramirez. In the next few minutes, I'll show you how to replace backgrounds in Adobe Firefly. From the Firefly website at
firefly.adobe.com, go to the Prompt box, choose Image, then click on the More button, and from here choose the Edit tab. 00:16 Replace a background using a reference image Now you
can upload an image from your Adobe cloud storage, including previous generations or Photoshop cloud documents. In this case, I'll click on Your device, and I'll select this image
of Shoes shot in a lightbox. To replace this image's background, first, select the model you want to use. At the moment, Nano Banana Pro is one of the better options and it can
output at 2K. Next, click the Reference image button and choose the image you want to use as the new background. I'll use another image from my device. In the Prompt box, simply
type: "Replace the background in image 1 with the background in image 2. Keep the content and angle of image one the same." Then click the blue Generate button. Firefly will then
place the new background behind the shoes and match perspective, lighting, and color to create a realistic composite. At this point, you can click on the original image from the
filmstrip to repeat this process to create multiple variations to determine what works best for your project. 01:18 Generate variations and compare results After generating your
second image, you can click on the thumbnails in the filmstrip to compare your variations. 01:24 Refine results with natural language edits But Firefly does a lot more than simple
background replacements. You can edit your generations with natural language commands to get exactly the result you need for your project. For example, I'll replace this prompt
with: "Remove the white horizontal line in the foreground, blur the background, and turn this into a night scene. With dark windows and the arena's lights spotlighting the shoes."
Then I'll Generate. Firefly will quickly make those changes, and we now have a third variation to choose from. By the way, if you're generating unrealistic results, 01:53 Bonus
tip! turn on Use Google Search. It reduces odd or made-up results by using real-world references including current trends, branded items, and landmarks. This is especially helpful
for things that may not have existed during the model's original training. And now that you know how to replace backgrounds in Adobe Firefly, try it with your photos. Again, I'm
Jesús Ramirez. Thank you for watching. What you’ll learn Replace a background using a reference image Upload your image, choose a model, and add a reference image to guide the new
background. Firefly matches angle, lighting, and color for realistic results. Generate variations and compare results You can upload another background image and generate it again
to explore different background options. Compare variations side-by-side to choose the best direction. Refine results with natural language edits Use plain-language prompts to
remove distractions, adjust lighting, or change the scene. Firefly updates your image without starting over. Bonus tip: Turn on Use Google Search when accuracy matters. It grounds
results in real-world references like brands, landmarks, and current trends. Instruction by Jesús Ramirez Photography by Jesús Ramirez Skills Generative AI Replacing backgrounds
Removing backgrounds Related tutorials Turn one brand-aligned image into a full social campaign Video8 min Edit photos with Generative Fill in Adobe Firefly Video6 min Generate
realistic photos with a prompt formula in Firefly Video6 min Was this tutorial helpful? Adobe, Inc. Creativity & Design PDF & E-signatures Marketing & Commerce Learn & Support Home
Learn Firefly Turn a sketch into video seamlessly in Firefly Firefly Learn Turn a sketch into video seamlessly in Firefly Start with a sketch and prompt, style your image, and
generate a short video - fast, smooth, and friction-free. Published April 13, 2026 Start with a sketch and prompt, style your image, and generate a short video—fast, smooth, and
friction-free. View transcript 00:01 Introduction Ever needed that perfect B-roll shot or wished your still images could magically come to life as a video? Well, you're in luck!
Hey, my name is Kaleb Gonyea, and today I'm going to show you an exciting new Adobe workflow that makes this possible. I'll guide you step by step as we take a simple sketch and
turn it into a stunning image and then transform that image into a smooth five-second video, all with a few clicks. By the end of this video, you'll have your own dynamic visual
you can use on your own projects. So, let's dive in and bring those ideas to life. Let's jump into Adobe Firefly. 00:30 Creating an image from a sketch with text to image First
thing you want to do is click on the Text to image module. On the left Toolbar, go ahead and select your Aspect ratio and Content type. I'm going to keep my Aspect ratio the same
at Square (1:1), but I'm going to select Art for Content type. Just below that, you'll see the Composition Reference section. This is where our sketch comes in handy. Click Upload
image and select your sketch. Next up, Style options. I'm going to choose the Colorful Cloud style, but you can pick whatever one fits your vibe. Then I want to turn the Visual
intensity and Strength all the way to 100%. Now for the fun part, your prompt. This tells Firefly what kind of image you want to generate. Here's what I used: A colorful goldfish
swimming in the water. Once your prompt is ready, go ahead and click Generate. Boom! Just like that, we've got some amazing results. Now let's take it a step further. 01:15
Converting generated images into video We're going to turn this still image into a short video directly. Hover over the image you like the best and click the down arrow in the top
left corner. Then choose Generate video from the dropdown. You'll be taken to this dashboard. Look in the bottom left. You'll see your image loaded as the first keyframe right next
to the Prompt field. Just like before, we'll tweak settings on the left side. 01:32 Adjusting video settings and writing motion prompts For the General settings, I'm going to keep
the Aspect ratio the same as 16:9, although I created a 1:1 image, I want to create a 16:9, so I can use this for video. Under Camera, you'll see a bunch of different Motion
options. I'm going to leave mine blank for now, but feel free to play with all the different options. Now let's write a prompt for our video. Here's what I'm using: A large
goldfish slowly swimming and blinking. Have fish swim out of frame. When you're happy with everything, hit Generate, sit back and watch the magic happen. And there you have it.
02:02 Final result and exporting the generated video From a simple sketch to an amazing video. Again, my name is Kaleb Gonyea, and I'll see you in the next video. Note: Stock
assets provided are for practice purposes only. See terms. What you’ll learn Kick off with a sketch and a prompt Use a sketch as a compositional reference and type a text prompt to
start your image generation. Add a style reference to guide the look. Pick your image and move to video Choose your favorite image generation from the results — no need to download
it first. You’re ready to move straight into video generation. Animate your vision in seconds The selected image loads as your first frame. Pick a camera motion, hit generate, and
get a 5-second video clip on the spot. Instruction by Kaleb Gonyea Adobe Stock Contributor Tebha Workspace Skills Generative AI Images Video Related tutorials Craft a captivating
launch teaser with Adobe Firefly Video3 min Create cinematic video from prompts and keyframes Video5 min Generate stunning images with prompts and quick edits Video3 min Was this
tutorial helpful? Adobe, Inc. Creativity & Design PDF & E-signatures Marketing & Commerce Learn & Support Home Learn Firefly Enhance your Firefly videos with pro techniques Firefly
Learn Enhance your Firefly videos with pro techniques Refine Firefly videos using frame cropping, composition references, style presets, and transparency controls. Published April
14, 2026 View transcript 00:01 Introduction Firefly Video has a variety of controls, giving you more flexibility when it comes to generating video. My name is Kelsey Brannan, and
you may know me as Premiere Gal on YouTube. Let's jump in and show you these controls in action. First up is frame cropping. I generated this image of a hippo sitting in a lake
using Firefly Image Model 4. And now I want to bring it to life using Firefly Video 00:25 Control framing and camera motion From the Generate video page on Firefly, let's go down
to Frame and let's click on First frame. You're going to select Your device to upload your image. In this case, I will upload the image of the hippo. Once it's done uploading
you're given a Cropping window. You can click and drag to resize this First frame. And you can also click on it to drag it and reposition it where you want it to start. In this
case, I want to start more zoomed in on the hippo's face. Then just click off to close. Next let's go to General settings. In this case, I want to generate in a 1080p resolution.
And I'm going to keep my generation as a Widescreen (16:9) Aspect ratio. And then we can scroll down to Camera. Here, there are many different types of motions to choose from. In
this case, I want it to zoom out. By selecting this based on the current cropping, the video will start cropped in and then zoom out. And now onto the last step, the prompt. Let's
click and type out a basic action. In this case, "A hippo swimming in a lake." This seems quite basic. So let's click here on this Enhance prompt icon to make our scene a bit more
dynamic. I encourage you to read the text prompt closely, and you can edit out anything that you don't want included, or add anything that you want to happen. In this case, I
remove the actions involving its legs and also added a note to create ripples of water. And now we can hit Generate. And here's the result. I think it did a great job, including
the action of swimming, plus the water ripples. And it also followed the motion control of zooming out. Now let's move on to another example showing you two more video controls:
02:39 Match composition and apply style Composition reference and Style. Instead of starting from the First frame like we did last time, let's go up to Composition. And here we can
upload any video we want to use as a reference. So Firefly will match this video's outlines and composition. This might be a video that you film yourself, or a stock video clip
that you have a license to use and you want to create something similar to it, but with some slight changes. Let's select Upload video, Your device. In this case, I'm going to
upload this Adobe Stock video clip of helium balloons rising. And I just want to change the color of the balloons, and I want to add clouds in the sky. Before we get to the text
prompt to make these changes, let's bring your attention down below to Style. These are presets that you can select to emulate a particular style, from Anime to Cinematic to line
art, and to Stopmotion as well. In this case, I'm going to select Cinematic. You'll also see that our selected Style preset has now been added below our text prompt, as well. And
for the text prompt, let's type in something basic what we want to see and what we want to happen. You can also click on Enhance prompt to add more detail. And once again, be sure
to read the prompt and remove anything that you don't want added. Also, be sure that you've selected the correct Resolution that you want to generate in. And then hit Generate. And
here's the result. 04:26 Generate transparent effects Let's move on to another example that will show you how to generate a transparent video. And this is perfect for generating
visual effects or overlays for your video edit. From the Generate video page you're going to scroll all the way down to the bottom. And underneath Advanced settings you'll find
Transparent background. Click to enable this. This will currently disable all of the controls except for the Frame and the text Prompt. Of course, you can upload a reference image
here if you like as your first frame. But in this case, I'm just going to type in a prompt and I'll keep it basic. Let's type in "A lightning strike." You can also enhance the
prompt to add more detail. And remember to read it, so that way you can remove anything that you find unnecessary. And then Generate. And here's the result. You can also choose to
play it back with a different background. For example a Black background. Let's go ahead and click on this icon to download. So now you know how to use frame cropping, composition
references, style presets and the transparency toggle to produce a variety of video generations. I hope you found this useful. And until next time. Bye! Note: Stock assets provided
are for practice purposes only. See terms. What you’ll learn Control framing and camera motion Use frame cropping to focus your shot and choose from camera motions like pan or
zoom. Combine these with enhanced prompts for results that match your vision. Match composition and apply a style using presets Upload a video as a composition reference to mirror
its attributes. Then choose a Style preset like Cinematic or Line art to set the visual tone. Generate transparent effects Toggle Transparent background to create overlays, visual
effects, or elements ready to layer in your video edits. To further refine your video, you can also use the Firefly AI video editor. Instruction by Kelsey Brannan, Creator of
Premiere Gal Adobe Stock Contributors Arra Vais Skills Generative AI Video Related tutorials Create cinematic video from prompts and keyframes Video5 min Tip: Borrow camera motion
from real footage in Firefly Video2 min Generate realistic photos with a prompt formula in Firefly Video6 min Was this tutorial helpful? Adobe, Inc. Creativity & Design PDF &
E-signatures Marketing & Commerce Learn & Support Home Learn Firefly Combine images with AI to spark new visual directions Firefly Learn Combine images with AI to spark new visual
directions Use the Remix feature in Firefly Boards to creatively blend images and shape original, client-ready concepts. Published February 12, 2026 View transcript 00:01
Introduction Hello, my Name is Natasha Polozenko, also known as Nataszko all over the web, and in this tutorial, I'm going to deep dive into the Remix functionality inside of
Firefly Boards. I'll show you how Remix allowed me to create a whole proposal for this brand Angel Beauty, which includes some ideas for logos, brand illustrations and even
packaging. So let's go! The brief from this client is Lush vintage. 00:21 Building a mood board and preparing design references So using the search functionality, I sourced a range
of different images that helped communicate the esthetic that I have in mind. And here are a bunch that I found earlier. And now I'm arranging the images in a way that start to
hint at a website layout, so that the client can really start to envision their brand coming to life. And side note, I'm using the Remove background functionality on a lot of these
images as I go. 00:45 Using remix to combine images and refine compositions This is where the Remix functionality comes into play. For the Lotus image here, I actually want to
incorporate the butterfly visual. If I select both of these images and hit Remix, I'll get some more images to pick from. And these are great, but I'm really picky and I want more
lily pad coverage. So if I select the one I like best, click Load, Composition, use the Eyedropper Tool to sample that original photo, and in the Generation settings, I'm going to
turn the Strength up to the top. This will give me a few more options that are closer to what I envisioned. 01:23 Generating logo concepts through iterative remixing I'm excited
about this so far. Now it's time to generate some logo ideas. I'm going to start selecting various combinations of my visuals to remix. This kind of exploration helps give me ideas
for directions I may not have thought of otherwise. I look at this as a starting-off point. Depending on how the client responds, the idea is that later I would go in and build my
designs from the ground up in my own style, using these visuals as my inspiration. Now from here, I can even remix some of the already remixed images if I like. And clicking Vary
is going to create even more options. This process is super fun. I went ahead and deleted the ones I didn't want, and organized and removed the backgrounds of the ones that I'd
like to keep in as possibilities. I wanted to include a few different directions for the client to review, but for now, I'm going to pick my favorite and add it to the mockup. I
also want to generate some ideas for brand illustrations 02:18 Creating brand illustrations using composition and style references to place in these frames. Earlier I remixed these
two images and got a few compelling generations that I thought could work really well. I also wanted to create some additional variations that use these images over on the left as
the composition reference. The way I approached this was by selecting one of the images I previously generated and hitting Load. The reason I do this is because I want all these
sub-prompts loaded in for me. Now I want to tell Firefly that I want to use this image as my composition, and I also want to reinforce that I want this image as the Style
reference. I can also go in and tweak the Generation settings if I want, and I'll get some nice options. I also did the same with some beauty products too, which I thought might be
fun for the client to see. 03:05 Finalizing layouts and presenting a proposal mockup Here are the images that I downselected to. I went ahead and placed them in behind the frames,
resizing and cropping them to fit. There we have it. We all know that proposals can be extremely time-consuming, which can be frustrating, especially because it's not something we
typically get paid for. But with Firefly Boards, you can generate ideas and concepts so quickly and efficiently, allowing you to breeze through proposals like this. And if the
client approves, this is an amazing launching off point to help you get to the actual fun work of designing, illustrating, and creating all these brand assets we teased in our
Boards. That's all for today. Until next time. Bye for now. What you’ll learn Build a visual identity mood board fast To generate a mood board, search for imagery that matches the
brief, remove backgrounds, and arrange visuals to explore fresh creative directions. Explore unexpected logo and packaging ideas Remix multiple images to generate bold new
combinations — then tweak compositions to align with the brief and your vision. Refine your direction with references Re-remix to iterate. Load previous generations, then guide the
outcome with style and composition references. Instruction by Natasha Polozenko Design by Natasha Polozenko Skills Branding Generative AI Related tutorials Transform text into
creative images Video4 min Shape concepts and moodboards in Firefly Boards Video4 min Generate images from text in Adobe Firefly Video6 min Was this tutorial helpful? Adobe, Inc.
Creativity & Design PDF & E-signatures Marketing & Commerce Learn & Support Home Learn Firefly Bring scenes to life with Firefly sound effects Firefly Learn Bring scenes to life
with Firefly sound effects Turn text prompts and voice recordings into a commercially safe sound mix with Firefly’s Text to sound effects. Published February 12, 2026 View
transcript 00:01 Introduction Welcome to the world of Firefly Generative Sound Effects. It's a new and beginner-friendly way to sound design using only text prompts, your voice,
and most importantly, your imagination. My name is Kelsey Brannan and you may know me from YouTube as Premiere Gal. And today we're going to bring beautiful sonic texture to this
scene using only text prompts and my voice. 00:24 Getting started with Firefly and generating first sound effects From firefly.adobe.com, go to the Audio tab and then select Text
to sound effects. To get started, navigate to the lower left and select Upload Media. I'm uploading this close-up shot of a chef cooking spaghetti sauce. This looks like a basic
scene, but let's use our imagination here. What sounds would you hear in this scene? Off the top of my head, I can think of four sounds, and currently, Firefly supports up to five
tracks. The key to a good text prompt is to keep it simple and focus on one prompt at a time. Let's type in exactly what we want. Pasta sauce sizzling in a pan. Then hit Generate.
And we are given four variations. So, let's play a couple. In this case, I like this first one. Just click on it and it's automatically added to our first track. And let's play.
Sounds great to me. 01:42 Using voice performance to create custom sound effects Now on to the spoon stirring, which is going to be the fun part because we get to do some voice
performance. For the text prompt, let's type in, Metal spoon stirring sauce. And then for Voice performance, we have the option to select an audio file from the device, or we can
record voice live in sync with the video. When we hit Record voice, it will count down. Let's record. And now I'll click Generate, and it will turn my voice into metal spoon
sounds. Let's play some variations. I like Variation 3, so let's click on it to apply it to the Timeline. If you need to adjust where the sound is slightly, 03:01 Editing,
trimming, and syncing audio tracks to video you can go to the end of the audio track here and drag the handle in. Same with the end as well. And that way you can move this audio
track just by clicking and selecting it to better match the video. And let's see how it sounds. That's pretty cool. You can also click on this audio clip and you can lower the
sound. That way, it sounds a bit more subtle. 03:39 Adding ambience, dialogue, and creating the final mix It's sounding great, but we need to add some more texture. Let's type in,
Kitchen ambiance with pots and pans. And we can remove the Voice recording from before. Then Generate. That one sounds okay, but it kind of sounds like somebody is playing drums on
pots and pans. I like Variation 3, so let's click on Add Audio Track and then click on Variation 3. And let's listen back. Next, I think it would be fun to add some indecipherable
Italian chefs talking in the background. So, let's go to text prompt. Let's type in, Italian chefs talking in a kitchen, and Generate. I like Variation 1 because you can't really
tell what they're saying. And that's the whole point. Let's add another audio track and then click on it to add it to our Timeline. Now let's select our ambience track and lower
the Volume, so that way it's not quite as loud. And it shows you the percentage volume at the end of each clip, which is really handy. Now let's play back the final mix. That's
what I'm talking about. And from here you can click Download to download the final mix with video or you can select each individual track. You can rename it by clicking on this
icon, and then download each individual track in case you want to import them and edit them further inside of Premiere Pro or Audition. As you can see with Generative Sound
Effects, you don't need any prior sound design experience, but you still have to be creative and harness your imagination to bring your sonic vision to life. And the best part is,
all the sounds are royalty free and commercially safe to use in all your video edits. That's all for today's video. Until next time. Bye bye. Note: Stock assets provided are for
practice purposes only. See terms. What you’ll learn Set the scene with layered sound Upload or generate a video and imagine the sounds you’d hear. Firefly lets you generate custom
sound effects — each on its own track — for a rich soundscape. Prompt sounds or perform them Type a simple prompt like “pasta sauce sizzling” or record your voice to guide the
sound. Choose your favorite variation and time it to your video. Check out our article on writing effective text prompts for sound effects generation. Refine your mix and download
Adjust volume and clip timing to fine-tune the final mix. Download the full audio or individual tracks for editing in Premiere or Audition. Instruction by Kelsey Brannan, Creator
of Premiere Gal Sound Design by Kelsey Brannan, Creator of Premiere Gal Adobe Stock Contributor Eleven studio Skills Generative AI Related tutorials Enhance your Firefly videos
with pro techniques Video7 min Generate images from text in Adobe Firefly Video6 min How to generate images with built-in Effects in Adobe Firefly Video3 min Was this tutorial
helpful? Adobe, Inc. Creativity & Design PDF & E-signatures Marketing & Commerce Learn & Support Home Learn Firefly Edit images with natural language prompts in Firefly Firefly
Learn Edit images with natural language prompts in Firefly Start with a generated image, then guide changes using plain language to refine details and shape the result. Published
February 26, 2026 View transcript 00:01 Intro and meet author Jesús Ramirez Let me show you how to create an album cover using generative AI while keeping real creative control. My
name is Jesús Ramirez. In this video, you'll learn to create an album cover in Adobe Firefly. We'll apply natural language edits and swap in your own portrait using Gemini 3 Nano
Banana Pro. To start, go to firefly.adobe.com. You can start ideating ideas for your album cover in Firefly or in Firefly Boards. In this case, we'll work in Firefly. You can start
by uploading an image and edit it with natural language prompts. Or, in this case, I'll generate a scene that matches what I have in mind. 00:36 Generate a starting image From this
page, you can use this Prompt Box to generate an image, but I prefer to click on the More button to access the Generate screen. It gives you access to the Properties panel on the
left. The Properties display the options for the currently selected model. For this project, we'll start with Firefly Image 5, and we'll choose the 1:1 Aspect ratio from the
dropdown, which is the Aspect ratio for album covers. Next, we need to type a descriptive prompt in the Prompt Box to generate the main image for our album cover. To save time,
I'll simply paste the prompt that describes a man sitting inside of a car with neon sign reflections on the window. Notice that the prompt provides descriptions for what the
subject is wearing, the atmosphere, and the type of photography I want to generate. Next, click on the Generate button, and in a few moments, Firefly will generate an image based
on the prompt. And I think this image will work great for my album cover, but it's not perfect. 01:38 Edit images with natural language prompts We do need to make a few
adjustments. To do so, simply click on the generated image, and that will get you into the Edit tab. Notice how the generated image appears as the reference photo, and we can use
any model in the dropdown to apply the edits. In this case, we'll choose Gemini 3 with Nano Banana Pro because it allows us to edit the image using natural language commands with
very realistic results. From the Prompt Box, you can describe one or more changes you would like to apply. For example, type the prompt: 'Make the glasses red and add a neon sign
reflection that reads "Firefly" on the window. When you want to add or edit text, include the desired text in quotations for better results. Then click on Generate. In a few
moments, Firefly will use Gemini 3 with Nano Banana Pro to generate an image that applies these edits. As you can see, the results are fantastic: his glasses are red and the word
'Firefly' is reflected on the window. This is exactly the design I had in mind for my album cover. The only issue is that this gentleman probably does not look like the musician we
want to feature in our album cover. So let me show you how to bring in an image of anyone 02:52 Replace people using reference images and replace the person generated in this
image. Notice that with Gemini 3 Nano Banana Pro, you can upload up to six reference images. To do so, click this icon, then choose Your device to look for images in your computer.
I'll select this portrait of myself, and you can add a prompt that reads: 'replace the man in image one' - which is our album cover - 'with the man in image two' - which is my
portrait. 'Keep the car, lighting, reflections, pose and everything else the same.' Then click on Generate. And this is our result. It looks amazing. It really looks like I'm
