to carry them to set every single 2:19:45 time but hey you'll never be without a mounting arm if I'm around 2:19:52 here's the next little packing Cube I usually use these for
really small items 2:19:57 that can get lost in the main bag so for example I have a bunch of uh plugs here 2:20:04 so this is a cube tap this is to turn one plug into three here I
have uh 2:20:10 something for three different USBS to go into and then this is a two prong to 2:20:16 three prong converter so of course other departments will have these but I
like 2:20:21 having these as well I also have a little bit of a voltage Outlet tester so 2:20:27 you can plug this into any outlet and it'll tell you uh whether the outlet is
2:20:33 working or not very good before you start plugging things in one of the main 2:20:38 cables I have here is a little triple cable so it has a USB on one side and 2:20:43
then it has lightning micro USB and USBC on the other side so you can charge 2:20:50 whatever you want to charge another little thing I have here is an adapter 2:20:56 for photo
lenses to become Cinema lenses it has these gears on the side which 2:21:01 help if you need to attach a follow Focus to the side of the lens 2:21:07 I have an extra camera plate
can never have too many of those sometimes you 2:21:12 lose one sometimes you brought your tripod to set but your camera plate is attached to the camera that's at home so 2:21:18
having one on standby is always useful I used to bring measuring tapes to set and 2:21:24 I got a couple of pretty deep cuts on my fingers so now I use a laser measure and 2:21:30
this is really helpful because you can either measure from the front right here where the laser comes out or from the 2:21:36 back of the laser measure so if you want to measure
from wall to wall you can actually set it so that it measures from 2:21:42 the back it also has bubble levels on both sides so it's a two in one tool you 2:21:48 can use it as both
a bubble level and a measure something that you can't do with 2:21:54 a regular measuring tape I have a little case of extra screws for camera plates 2:22:00 and such of all
different sizes three quarters quarter twenties these are 2:22:05 incredibly helpful because they're really small so you can lose them really easily having extras is very handy I
2:22:13 also have a cold shoe extension so this can turn one cold shoe into three cold 2:22:19 shoes so in case you need to mount something that has cold shoe mounts you 2:22:24
can multiply the amount of mounts on your camera and surprisingly this has also helped me out a bunch I have a 2:22:30 little cell phone holder you might think you're a
cinematographer why do you need a cell phone holder it actually helped 2:22:36 me out literally two days ago when someone who needed to do a teleprompter 2:22:41 script on camera
um didn't have a teleprompter so I busted out my phone I put this on top of 2:22:47 my camera and we had a teleprompter ready to go lastly I actually have a few gifts that I like
to give to some crew 2:22:54 members at the end of the day maybe they went the extra mile maybe they were a PA who was really on top of things so I 2:23:00 have a little slate pin
how cute is that and it actually works 2:23:06 so I give these away and also sometimes people keep trying to take my multi-tool 2:23:13 from me so I will give them a multi-tool so
this is something that is also on my 2:23:20 phone keys but it's a little uh snowflake multi-tool it has a Phillips 2:23:26 it has a flathead it has a bunch of hex keys in here and
this is a really really 2:23:32 good gift next I have my light meter this is a must for every 2:23:38 cinematographer's toolkit it shows you how much light is being cast upon any
2:23:45 object in your scene and it'll help you expose things properly my favorite tool 2:23:50 it also um honestly it makes you look really cool you just like going around doing
this 2:23:55 you see people when they're when they're doing this all the time they're like trying to hide the ball it's because the 2:24:03 ball is actually omnidirectional so when
you pop it out like this then every light hitting it is being registered so 2:24:09 like this light above me is being registered the lights behind me that one but then when you
close it up and you 2:24:16 angle it then it's taking a read directly from that light but you can actually hide it some more like this 2:24:22 also you notice I label everything
with my name is people on set 2:24:28 they like to take stuff that's not theirs next I have a tiny uh what we 2:24:33 call an on-camera light but it can be used for anything it can
be used to light up your space wherever your camera 2:24:40 bag is so that you have a little bit more light there it can be used off the 2:24:45 side as an eye light for your
characters in case they don't have an eye light to make their eyes sparkle it can be used 2:24:51 if you are walking around with your camera and you just want a little bit of extra
light on the front so you just 2:24:57 turn it on like this and this one happens to be rgbww so it has all sorts 2:25:03 of modes you can turn it to whatever color you want
whatever saturation let's make it less saturated more saturated 2:25:09 and of course intensity is at 100 right now so let's take it down to zero and all the way up these days a
lot of 2:25:15 lighting is LED lighting so you can touch it it's cool to the touch but you never know sometimes you might show up 2:25:21 to set and they may be using some hot
lights so I like to have a pair of gloves in my bag at all times these 2:25:28 gloves right now are attached to a little belt clip so when I'm not using them I can clip them to my
belt and they 2:25:35 can just hang out with me two types of flashlights one that you can hold in your hand look around 2:25:43 and then another type of light that I have is a
headlamp having a headlamp just opens up your hands so that you can 2:25:51 look through your stuff you can do whatever you need to do without having 2:25:56 to hold a flashlight a
few more things left here on the inside first thing a 2:26:02 pair of headphones you never know lastly I have two full sets of hex Keys also known as Allen wrenches I have a full
2:26:09 set of metric and Imperial they're slightly different um and they just help with anything like 2:26:16 your tripod is wonky you need a allen wrench your camber plate is on
wrong you 2:26:22 need an allen wrench your camera cage needs help allen wrench so uh absolute must alright that's it I hope this was 2:26:30 informative if you have any other
questions please do let me know in the comments I would love to answer them 2:26:35 also if you want to see anything else that I bring with me or you want me to elaborate let me
know until next time 2:26:42 happy shooting thank you All From the series Skip to content Transcript: get-organized-with-layers-hybrid_video.mp4 Language: TimestampContent
00:00:05In the Orientation series, - we talked about 00:00:07how artwork like a logo, - poster or other designs 00:00:11can get messy - with tons of overlapping objects.
00:00:14You'll learn how Illustrator - makes it easy for you 00:00:17to select, group and align your artwork, 00:00:19so you can work smarter - and focus on the design. 00:00:22But
what happens when you have something - a little more complicated? 00:00:25That's where layers come in. 00:00:27Layers make selecting, working with - and organizing your artwork
much easier. 00:00:32Now, most of us may not need to use layers - when we start in Illustrator, 00:00:35because frankly, the artwork you create - may not be that complicated.
00:00:39Some of us might not even have known - that layers existed. 00:00:43In this tutorial, - you'll learn how to use layers 00:00:45to get complete control over organizing, -
selecting and moving content. 00:00:49But before you jump into the tutorial, - and try this yourself, 00:00:53let's explore what layers are - and find out how they can be so
useful. 00:00:57Layers live in the Layers panel. 00:00:59Every document starts with a single layer, - and everything you make is on that layer. 00:01:03If you look in the Layers
panel, - you might just see the layer there. 00:01:07But when you expand the layer, 00:01:08you can see - everything in the document now listed. 00:01:11Everything is named in the
panel. 00:01:13For example, you can tell this is a group - because it would say Group, 00:01:16this is a rectangle, and so on. 00:01:19It's all stacked from top to bottom.
00:01:21Looking in the Layers panel in this case - is like looking at the poster tilted, 00:01:25you can see how everything is layered. 00:01:28In the Orientation series we covered
00:01:30how to arrange and group content - in your project using the menu commands. 00:01:35What we didn't show you 00:01:36is that these actions - are reflected in the Layers
panel. 00:01:39For example, if I hide this artwork, 00:01:42I can see that reflected - in the Layers panel. 00:01:43Notice there's no Eye icon, - that means it's hidden.
00:01:47Now suppose we want to show it again, - you can use the menu commands, 00:01:50or you can just use the Layers panel. 00:01:53Click where the Eye icon was - and the artwork
is back. 00:01:56If you need to select certain content, - but still need to see everything, 00:02:00in the Layers panel, 00:02:01you can temporarily lock - whatever you're not
working on, 00:02:04so you don't accidentally move it - like these background shapes. 00:02:07Now what happens if you need to select - a bunch of the same objects often
00:02:11like these letters? 00:02:12You could group all the letters together 00:02:14but that would make it harder - to select and edit each. 00:02:18You can make a brand-new layer
like this, 00:02:20maybe to put all the letters on - and give it a name like Text, 00:02:23so you can keep track of everything. 00:02:26For each new layer you make, 00:02:28naming
them something - that makes sense to you is a best practice. 00:02:31If you already have design content - in your document like those letters, 00:02:35you can drag content from one
layer - to another in the panel, 00:02:38so you can put it on that new layer. 00:02:39That way you can easily hide, block 00:02:41and select the whole layer - and everything on it.
00:02:44To finish up I'll make a new layer, 00:02:47rename it Background, 00:02:49and put the background shapes on it. 00:02:52Now notice how the content - is not in the right
order out in the design. 00:02:56The hand illustrations are underneath - everything else when they should be on top. 00:03:00The order of the layers - in the Layers panel
00:03:02determines the ordering of content - in the document. 00:03:05So we dragged them into an ordering - that makes sense in the Layers panel. 00:03:09First, you can collapse
all the layers - to make them easier to move. 00:03:13Then we drag to order them like this. 00:03:17So what did you learn? 00:03:19All content lives on a layer. 00:03:21Layers live
in the Layers panel, 00:03:23and they can give you complete control 00:03:25over organizing, selecting - and arranging content. 00:03:28Naming layers is a best practice - that
makes it easier to find things later. 00:03:32Now it's your turn. 00:03:34Start this tutorial - with step-by-step instructions 00:03:36to practice taking organization selections -
to the next level with layers. - Adobe, Inc. Creativity & Design PDF & E-signatures Marketing & Commerce Learn & Support Home Learn Firefly Edit photos with Generative Fill in
Adobe Firefly Firefly Learn Edit photos with Generative Fill in Adobe Firefly Remove, add, or expand image content using brushes, prompts, and smart presets to shape the perfect
photo. Published May 21, 2026 View transcript Ever wish you could remove something from a photo or add something that wasn't there? Now you can with Adobe Firefly. I'm Jesús
Ramirez. In this video, I'll show you how to use Generative fill to easily add, expand, and remove parts of an image for a travel brochure, using just a few clicks and simple
prompts. From the Firefly website, at firefly.adobe.com, click on the Image tab, then on Generative fill. From here, you can upload a photo by clicking on the Upload button, and
selecting it from your computer, or by simply dragging it into this box, which is what I will do. This photo will be used for a travel brochure, and I would like to improve it just
a bit before we publish it. Let's start by removing the distracting man wearing the red shirt. On the left, you will see the Toolbar, which contains tools to edit your image and a
Pan tool that allows you to move the image around the workspace. To start, enable the Remove tool, then make sure Add is enabled. This will allow you to add to your selection. Now
make sure you have a brush small enough you can work with. You can do so from the Brush settings in this menu. You have three controls: Brush size, which controls the size of the
brush tip; Brush hardness, which controls the softness of the brush edge, and Brush opacity, which controls the intensity of the brush. Of course, you can use the Brush size slider
to resize your brush, but I prefer using the keyboard shortcut. Tap on the left or right bracket keys to resize your brush. The bracket keys are to the right of the letter P in
North American keyboards. A brush about this big should work, and I'll brush over that man in the background. The checkerboard pattern indicates the areas where the generated
content will appear. Now that I painted over the man, I'll press the Remove button and, in a few moments, you will see three generations. The results are just incredible. Firefly
will match lighting, perspective, and depth of field, creating a photorealistic result. You can click on this arrow icon to cycle through the other two results, and they're just as
good. If you're unhappy with the results, click on the More button to generate three additional variations. However, there's no need to do so in this case. I'm happy with these
generations. I'll press the Keep button to apply the generated content to my image and continue working. The Remove tool is also great for removing objects that overlap with
people. For example, her purse is very distracting and it's not giving us the relaxed vacation vibe were going for. So, let's remove it. Again, we'll use the Remove tool. Here's a
tip for making selections: Trace around an object with a small brush, then increase your Brush size by tapping the right bracket key and fill in the rest. This selection looks
good, so I'll click on the Remove button. And again, Firefly does a fantastic job of matching the content of this image. I like this generation the best, so I'll click on the Keep
button. Again, we want to make this image feel like a relaxing European vacation. So, let's see if rolling up her sleeves helps. To add specific content to an image, click on
Insert. This tool works very similarly to the Remove tool. The only difference is that we now get a textbox where we can type in a prompt to influence the generation. We'll start
by making a selection around her forearms. To get better control, I'll decrease the Brush size by tapping on the left bracket key, and I will brush over her forearms. I'll make
sure not to leave any pieces behind. Then I will type: 'rolled up sleeves' and I'll click on Generate. This first result is fantastic. Let's look at the rest. They're all pretty
good, but I think I like the first one the best, so I'll select it and click on the Keep button. I'm really happy with how this image turned out, and I would love to use it across
multiple campaigns on different platforms. Each one will need a different aspect ratio, but thankfully that's not a problem in Adobe Firefly. With the Expand tool, I can easily
extend the image to fit any size I need. Once you enable the Expand tool, you can select the preset that best works for your project. In this case, I'll choose Freeform to manually
select the width by dragging on these handles. I want to have negative space on the left of the image, and I will use the Rule of Thirds guides to align her face to this upper
right intersection. If you want to generate something specific like a location, you can type it in the Prompt, or you can leave it blank to have Firefly determine what to generate
based on the content of the photo. In this case, I'll leave the Prompt blank, and I'll click on Generate. Firefly will then turn this vertical image into a horizontal one by adding
content to the left side. Choose the variation you like the best. In this case, I'll go with this one and I'll press Keep. To see my image without the overlays, I'll enable the
Insert tool. And this image looks fantastic. It's everything I wanted. Now that you've seen how easy it is to add, expand, or remove parts of your image with Generative fill, try
it with your photos. Again, my name is Jesús Ramirez. Thank you for watching. Note: Stock assets provided are for practice purposes only. See terms. What you’ll learn Remove
distractions Use the brush to select unwanted objects — Firefly fills in the area with photorealistic results. Add new elements with prompts Select a region and type what you want
to see — like props, clothing, or background features. Resize and reframe with Expand Expand your image to fit different sizes or layouts, or to create space for text. Instruction
by Jesús Ramirez Adobe Stock Contributor maxbelchenko Skills Generative AI Related tutorials Turn one brand-aligned image into a full social campaign Video8 min Generate realistic
photos with a prompt formula in Firefly Video6 min Customize stock photos and your own art in Boards Video4 min Was this tutorial helpful? Adobe, Inc. Creativity & Design PDF &
E-signatures Marketing & Commerce Learn & Support Home Learn Firefly Generate realistic photos with a prompt formula in Firefly Firefly Learn Generate realistic photos with a
prompt formula in Firefly Start with reference images and build out a prompt formula that controls pose, framing, lighting, and texture. Published May 1, 2026 View transcript 00:01
Introduction and meet Jesús Ramirez [Jesús Ramirez]: Learn the formula to generate realistic photos in Adobe Firefly. My name is Jesús Ramirez. In this video, you will learn to
generate realistic images using a simple prompt formula you can use for any project. The goal is to take a product shot, add a portrait reference, and generate a realistic product
shot with the same consistent person in multiple environments. To start, go to the Firefly website at firefly.adobe.com. From the Prompt box, choose Image from the dropdown. Then
click the More button to access the Generate screen. This gives you access to the Properties panel on the left, which displays all the settings for the currently selected model.
From the Model dropdown, select the latest Gemini model - Gemini 3.1 (w/ Nano Banana 2) in this case - which is Firefly's most capable partner model for generating realistic
images. You can also select an Aspect ratio - Auto is default, which lets Firefly decide the output - but in this case, choose Widescreen (16:9). Then select your output's
Resolution. Currently, you can choose between 1K and 2K. I'll choose 2K. 01:05 Start with a product image and a simple prompt Next, upload your product image. Click the Image
upload icon in the Properties panel. You will be able to upload images from your Adobe Cloud Storage and Your device. I'll choose Your device and select this product photo of a
sweater. Internally, Firefly labels each uploaded image in order, so your sweater becomes Image 1. Keep in mind that you can reference it in any prompt simply by writing Image 1,
and Firefly knows exactly what you mean. For the first generation, we'll keep the prompt simple. This is the formula we will use for the first example: subject plus location and
context. Using natural language, tell Firefly who it is and where they are. The prompt on screen is what I will use. Notice the color coding that matches the formula. To save time,
I'll simply paste the prompt into the Prompt box at the bottom. Then I'll click the blue Generate button to create my image. In a few moments, Firefly will give us a realistic
photo. The sweater detail comes entirely from the reference image, and the prompt established who is wearing it and where. This is a convincing result, but who is that person? If
you just need a single realistic image, this works perfectly. 02:17 Add a portrait for character consistency But if you're creating a series, uploading a portrait gives you
character consistency across every generation. To do so, I'll click on the Image upload icon again, and from my device, I'll choose a person's photo. This becomes Image 2 and you
can reference her directly in the prompt. The prompt on screen is what I will use. Notice that I'm referencing the woman in Image 2. After I Generate, Firefly will give us a
similar scene with the person in the reference photo, and we'll continue using her across every example in this video. Now, this result is great, but Firefly made a lot of
decisions for us. In a real photo shoot, you direct your subject, frame the shot, and set the lighting. And that's exactly what we're adding to the prompt formula next to give you
more control over your generated images. We'll use three new elements in this prompt: action, composition, and lighting. This is the prompt that we'll use next. She is now in a
professional setting. We want to give the model more direction on what to generate. Action sets how she's standing. Composition sets the framing. And lighting sets how to
illuminate the scene. I'll Generate this prompt, and this is my result. Notice the pose. One hand resting on the desk facing the camera, the framing from the hips up, keeping the
full sweater visible, and the warm ambient light keeps no harsh shadows. Next, let's take the prompt one step further. 03:41 Control action, composition, lighting, and texture For
the third generation, we're going for a nightlife editorial look. This time, we'll add three elements to the formula: style, camera, and material. This is the prompt we'll use
next. Style is your creative direction. It covers that color grade, the editorial feel, and the scene's atmosphere. Camera sets the photographic settings. If you're a photographer,
this is where your skills translate directly. The Gemini model understands camera settings the way you do: focal length, aperture, depth of field. Just use natural language to
describe what you want. And texture sets how things should look up close. It's how you define the physical surface of everything in the frame, like the fabric and the skin. I'll
Generate. And the results are fantastic. Look at the depth of field, the rim light on the side, and the texture on her skin and sweater. Each one came from a single line in the
prompt. Now try using any of these prompt formulas to generate realistic photos. Start with the simplest version and build from there. Use as much of the formula as the task
requires. And remember, not every generation will be the result you want on the first try. Just like with a real photo shoot, the best photos come from adjusting, iterating, and
trying different approaches until the image feels right. Again, my name is Jesús Ramirez. Thank you for watching. What you’ll learn Start with a product image and a simple prompt
Upload a product photo, select a generative model like Gemini 3.1, and write a prompt that pairs a subject with a location. Firefly generates a realistic scene built around your
reference image. Add a portrait for character consistency Upload a second reference photo of a person to keep the same face across every generation. Reference both images in your
prompt to produce a series with a consistent character and product. Control action, composition, lighting, and texture Expand your prompt with direction for pose, framing, camera
settings, and material detail. Each element translates into visible changes — from depth of field and rim lighting to fabric and skin texture. Instruction by Jesús Ramirez Skills
Generative AI Effects Related tutorials How to generate images with built-in Effects in Adobe Firefly Video3 min Enhance your Firefly videos with pro techniques Video7 min Edit
photos with Generative Fill in Adobe Firefly Video6 min Was this tutorial helpful? Adobe, Inc. Creativity & Design PDF & E-signatures Marketing & Commerce Learn & Support Home
Learn Firefly Build a Behance case study with Firefly Boards Firefly Learn Build a Behance case study with Firefly Boards Shape a clear creative direction, generate polished
mockups, and present your work in a cohesive, portfolio-ready story. Published April 27, 2026 View transcript 00:01 Introduction and meet author Nick Longo [Nick Longo]: Hi, guys.
Today I'm going to show you how to build a clean, compelling Behance case study using Firefly Boards as the foundation of my creative process. I'm Nick Longo of Longo Designs, and
we're going to walk you through how I develop a fictional brand identity and turn it into a small but polished case study that's ready to share on Behance. The goal here isn't just
to make visuals, but is to show you how Firefly Boards can help you explore ideas, build mockups, and tell a clear, creative story from start to finish. I've started with these
three unique files that I copied and pasted from Adobe Illustrator. These are the graphics that I'll use to build out a series of mockups. 00:43 Explore visual directions from
brand artwork I'm going to click Generate image, and I've pasted in a prompt that I created using an LLM. This allows me to include a high level of detail about how I want my
mockups to look and feel. In this case, we've created a blank T-shirt with artist supplies scattered around it, looking like it's in a working studio. Next, I'm sampling both the
logo and the T-shirt, prompting Firefly Boards to place the graphic directly on the shirt. The results are pretty incredible. Once you hit Place on canvas, you've got your first
image ready for the case study. We could speed things up now, and we'll move along and create the same thing for a mug. For the third piece, I want to try something a little
different. We've written a prompt for a corduroy hat in the same artist studio. After generating the image, I can go to Edit and basically ask Firefly to convert this artwork into
an embroidery patch. What we get back is a beautiful, detailed embroidered patch ready to apply to the hat using the same process that we did for the T-shirt and the mug. 01:51
Generate polished mockups for a cohesive story Now that you have these three highly detailed original on-brand images ready for your Behance case study, let's take it to the next
step. You're going to click on each one of these and simply hit Download; you'll choose your preferred file or format, save these into a folder and you're ready to move to the next
step, creating a case study in Behance. 02:13 Present a portfolio-ready project Over in Behance, click Share Work and select Project. From there, choose Image and upload all of the
visuals that you just created in Firefly Boards. You can scroll to the top and click Edit and reorder and arrange your tiles exactly how you want them. Notice I've added a simple
title card I created in Illustrator to act as the header. Next, go over to Styles and slide the Content Spacing over to the far left and hit 0. Once it's saved, you can scroll
through and review your entire case study. Just like that, you've built a polished, cohesive case study. Hit Continue, and now you get to personalize your entire project by adding
specific Title, Tags, Category, and Tools that you've used in the Adobe Creative Cloud. Head over to the Edit Cover image, and now you can actually add your specific cover image
that you would like as the header. Notice here I've used a cropped image of the corduroy hat for my cover image, and now I published it and I have a finished case study ready to
check out. And it is live on your Behance page. Now it's your turn. Go ahead and use Firefly Boards to explore your own visual directions. Build a small set of finished images and
turn them into a Behance case study that clearly communicates your creative thinking. What you’ll learn Explore visual directions from brand artwork Start with your artwork and
explore multiple directions using prompts. Build a strong foundation that supports your brand story. Generate polished mockups for a cohesive story Place your designs into
realistic product scenes. Refine details and experiment with styles to create a cohesive set of visuals. Present a portfolio-ready project Arrange your visuals into a clean layout
that shows your process and decisions. Add a strong cover and publish your project on Behance. Instruction by Nick Longo, Longo Designs Design by Nick Longo, Behance Follow Nick!
Nick Longo, Instagram Skills Generative AI Adding photos Portfolio Related tutorials Turn one brand-aligned image into a full social campaign Video8 min Edit photos with Generative
Fill in Adobe Firefly Video6 min Generate realistic photos with a prompt formula in Firefly Video6 min Was this tutorial helpful? Adobe, Inc. Creativity & Design PDF & E-signatures
Marketing & Commerce Learn & Support Home Learn Firefly Customize stock photos and your own art in Boards Firefly Learn Customize stock photos and your own art in Boards Start with
one image and adapt it with new contexts and elements to suit your designs. Published April 27, 2026 View transcript 00:01 Introduction and meet author Nick Longo [Nick Longo]: In
this tutorial, I'm going to show you how to customize images from Adobe Stock or of your own collection, using Firefly Boards to explore variations, reframe the composition, and
expand creative directions. I'm Nick Longo of Longo Designs, and the goal here is to show you how Firefly Boards can help you move beyond a single image and quickly generate
multiple usable directions for different creative needs. This workflow is especially useful when you need flexibility, whether you're designing for social media, packaging design,
presentations, or just simple brand storytelling. On a new Firefly Board, I'm dropping in an image of a typical magazine cover. 00:41 Remove elements and refine your base image
We've got a model with a lot of type, both in front of her and behind her. To remove that, hit Presets; and then Remove text. In the Image button, you'll sample the photo that you
have and hit Generate. What this will do is evaluate the entire composition, and it'll give you a brand-new image with all of the type removed. It's actually even filled in all of
those blanks and gives you a clean version of just the model. Next, we're dropping in an image of an interior design, 01:11 Match styles and edit text with precision and let's say
someone throws you a curve ball and says, "You know, we love that look, but we have a new one in mind, and we just love to see what that would look like." Well, here is your fast
track to showing that image in a whole new way. We're going to hit Presets, and you're going to scroll down to another new feature that gives you this ability to change, and that
is called Restyle. You'll hit Composition and sample the original image, and you'll hit Style, and sample the new image. What this is going to do is give you the original
composition in a whole new style, so you'll have an option to show your client or your boss very quickly, and it will take all of the elements of the new and bring it into the
original. Let's have some fun with type. I'm dropping in this image of an old restaurant sign, but let's say we want it to say something different; maybe it's our client's name.
Hit Edit, Edit text in image. And what this will do is highlight that actual type. You can retype with the exact words or phrase you want it to say. Hit Generate, and it will
create this stunning replica of exactly what it looked like with the new type added. 02:27 Generate new contexts and virtual try-ons Let's start with this simple soda can, but I
want something bigger and bolder for the background. So, we'll Edit, pick the platform of our choice, and I'll drop in a prompt straight from my creative brief. And boom, we have
the coolest shot of this can in a totally different environment ready for social media. Lastly, let's have some fun with wardrobe. Here's an image from a photoshoot I took, but we
wanted something a little bit funnier, maybe a different jacket. So, I'm bringing in the original art and this new image of a puffer jacket. It's best to have something that's
clean, front-facing, and has a white background. I'm going to hit Presets again, and you're going to go to Virtual try-on; you'll click Subject, click on the original, you'll go to
Clothing, and click on the new image that you want the image to be wearing. Hit Generate, and you won't believe your eyes, but you'll actually get an incredible image of the
original person wearing the new clothing. It even took the post-it notes and placed them exactly in the same position. What an incredible thing to have and what an awesome tool to
be using. Using Firefly Boards this way makes it so much easier to explore ideas, test variations, and adapt visuals without slowing down your workflow. Now it's your turn. Bring
in an Adobe Stock image or something of your own and explore multiple creative directions in Firefly Boards and export a set of visuals that are ready for real-world use. Note:
Stock assets provided are for practice purposes only. See terms. What you’ll learn Remove elements and refine your base image Clean up stock photos or your own art by removing text
and unwanted elements to create a strong starting point. Match styles and edit text within images Apply styles from reference images and update existing type directly in the image
to quickly generate new variations that stay true to the original design Generate new contexts and virtual try-ons Place your subject in new environments and test wardrobe changes
to create visuals for different uses. Instruction by Nick Longo, Longo Designs Design by Nick Longo, Behance Follow Nick! Nick Longo, Instagram Adobe Stock Contributors Kaspars
Grinvalds Cavan jdoms Skills Generative AI Related tutorials Turn one brand-aligned image into a full social campaign Video8 min Edit photos with Generative Fill in Adobe Firefly
Video6 min Generate realistic photos with a prompt formula in Firefly Video6 min Was this tutorial helpful? Adobe, Inc. Creativity & Design PDF & E-signatures Marketing & Commerce
Learn & Support Home Learn Firefly Turn static images into motion-ready social posts Firefly Learn Turn static images into motion-ready social posts See how Claudio Zavala Jr.
brings culture-inspired storytelling to life in Photoshop and Firefly. Published April 16, 2026 View transcript 00:01 Intro and meet presenter Claudio Zavala Jr. [Claudio Zavala
Jr.]: Hi everyone, I'm Claudio Zavala Jr., Adobe education evangelist. In this video, I'm going to walk you through a real modern creative workflow - how to turn a static image
into a calavera or sugar skull style social ad designed for motion. This is a fast project, but it's intentional. We'll design in Photoshop, enhance with Firefly, and finish with
simple animation in Photoshop like the one you see here. Let's go ahead and get started. 00:29 Build a strong visual foundation in Photoshop Here's a project I opened in Photoshop
with this background layer of this room. Now I'm going to embed an image of a teddy bear that I found on Adobe Stock. Then I'll click on Remove background from the Contextual Task
Bar. To blend these two elements naturally, I will use the Harmonize option from the Contextual Task Bar, then I'll select from the different variations that were generated and
select the one that I prefer. Let's apply a subtle color adjustment using presets to give this a dreamy look. Lastly, I'm going to go ahead and merge all of these layers into one,
and then convert this into a Smart Object. Now let's expand this idea with Firefly. 01:15 Explore bold visual directions in Firefly I'm jumping in to generate an image using Text
to image as well as an image reference. I'm going to turn my teddy bear into a calavera. First, I will select the partner model which is Firefly Image 4 - I'm going to change it to
Square and then use a Reference image. Next, I'm going to add the prompt: "a sugar skull teddy bear on a turquoise background with flowers" - and click on Generate. Awesome
results. Something else you can try and do is click on the partner models and try another generation. This is one of my favorite parts of Firefly. I can explore ideas visually fast
without breaking creative flow. Once I have what I like, I'm going to download it and then embed it into my project. Now it's time to bring this to life, but we're keeping the
animation simple. 02:08 Bring it to life with simple motion First, I'll add the sugar skull image that I created in Firefly to the project and place it at the topmost layer. Next,
I'll add an image of a cloud by clicking on the Add free Adobe Stock Images button from the Contextual Task Bar. I'll search for "white cloud element" and add it to the layer
below. I love it actually with the sugar skull teddy bear. Now for some magic, I'll add a clipping mask to the top layer. This will create a see-through effect revealing the sugar
skull teddy bear. Now I'll turn on the Timeline window and create a video timeline. Here I'll animate the cloud by creating keyframes and scaling, rotating, and repositioning it.
And I'll repeat the process for the entire clip in the Timeline. Let's take a look at the final calaveras sugar skull by moving the Playhead to the beginning and clicking Play.
Fantastic. Now, to get this out to socials for others to see, I'll need to export the project. Click on File, then Export, and choose Render Video, choose your Name and Location -
you can leave everything to default - and click Render. To recap: we designed in Photoshop, we enhanced with Firefly, and we animated with intention. Now why does this work? It's a
real cross-app workflow and it's immediately useful for creators like yourself. Now it's your turn to explore Photoshop and Firefly to elevate your content and share your stories
with the world. Once again, I'm Claudio Zavala Jr. from the Adobe Education team, and thanks for watching. Note: Stock assets provided are for practice purposes only. See terms.
What you’ll learn Build a strong visual foundation in Photoshop Start with your subject, remove the background, and use Harmonize to blend everything into one cohesive scene. Push
it further with a color preset that defines mood and strengthens the story. Explore bold visual directions in Firefly Upload your image as a reference and reinterpret it with a
bold prompt. Switch between Firefly Image 4 and partner models to unlock unexpected styles and push the creative direction further. Bring it to life with simple motion Drop your
final artwork back into Photoshop and use a clipping mask to merge two variations into one dynamic composition. Add simple keyframe animation to introduce motion, then export a
refined video built for social. Instruction by Claudio Zavala Jr. Design by Claudio Zavala Jr. Adobe Education Evangelist Adobe Stock Contributor Eyepain AEyZRiO Skills Generative
AI Creative effects Concept design Related tutorials Turn one brand-aligned image into a full social campaign Video8 min Edit photos with Generative Fill in Adobe Firefly Video6
min Generate realistic photos with a prompt formula in Firefly Video6 min Was this tutorial helpful? Adobe, Inc. Creativity & Design PDF & E-signatures Marketing & Commerce Learn &
