your clips with lighting and motion effects from Film Impacts. Published January 12, 2026 View transcript Premiere Pro offers countless ways to fix, enhance, and stylize footage
through video effects. The Film Impact category adds some really modern, polished options, which I'll use to jazz up my jellyfish scene. I'd like to add some lighting and motion
effects to make this scene even more vibrant. I'll come to my Effects panel, and under Video Effects, there are four Film Impact categories: Essential, Lights & Blurs, Motion, and
Tools. I'm in Premiere Pro 25.5, so your layout of these categories may differ if you're working in another version, but applying and adjusting works the same. I'm also going to
bring up my Film Impacts Dashboard. 00:40 Preview and apply effects in the Film Impacts dashboard I'll go up to Window, then Extensions, and then Film Impact Dashboard. Here you
also see Essential, Lights & Blurs, Motion, and Tools. The difference is I can hover over each of these and get a sense of what each of these effects does. This space may also
evolve in future Premiere versions. Let's begin by adding a Vignette to my first clip, and that can be found in the Essential Effects category. Essential Effects are those core
effects that refine, enhance, and stylize our footage. I'm going to select my jellyfish clip and then apply my Vignette. Then I'll come to my Effect Controls panel and show you the
before and after on this Vignette - a nice, subtle, shadowed vignette around my image. If I want to change the look, I can adjust my parameters or use the Surprise Me! button,
which is present in all Film Impact effects. As I cycle through, you can see different looks until I land on what I like. I think I'll go with that. I like the blurred edges; I
think it makes the title really pop. Let me just play through this. And by the way, I have some background music in my sequence if you'd like to add some for your own, you can find
it in the Essential Sound panel. Let's move on to something a little flashier in the Lights & Blurs category. 02:00 Customize your effect with the Surprise Me! Button These effects
add different types of light play to create various mood and visual depth. I'm going to add the Light Leaks effect to simulate shifting underwater light. I will apply that to my
jellyfish, and I think this is a bit much, so let's go into Effect Controls. And again, I'll use the Surprise Me! button to get to a good starting place. I'll cycle through a few
of these. I think that's a little bit closer to what I'm after. Let me play through this. Very nice. I think I just want to adjust my Hue a bit, a little bit closer to some blues
and greens and my Diffraction as well. Instead of keeping the effect at full intensity the whole time, let's keyframe it to shift it through different levels, 02:47 Add keyframes
to change the intensity over time which I think will be perfect for the underwater look. I do that by keyframing my Master Value. I'll go to the beginning and I'll click on my
Stopwatch, and let's bring that down to something quite low. Then maybe a third of the way through, we'll bump it up to something a lot higher, and then back down and then back up.
Now we should be moving through different intensities over the course of the clip. I'll give it a quick play. Now, let's copy and paste that to the rest of the clips. So I'll press
Cmd+C or Ctrl+C on Windows, and then select the rest of my clips. And we want to Paste Attributes. We just want our Light Leaks, and we want to make sure to Scale our Attribute
Times so that the keyframes are proportional across all the clips. Let's just play through a few of these moments. I think that's working really well. Now let's finish with some
Motion effects, which add movement without keyframes. 03:56 Animate text with motion effects I want my title to slowly grow and drift in the water. So I'll select it and apply the
Grow effect. I think the default setting should be fine, but let's play it back to check. Yes, that's good. And then I'm also going to apply the Wiggle effect. And let's take a
look at the default value here. A little bit much. So let's modify that. I'm going to come down to my parameters and just back off my Wiggle Speed to something close to around 10
or 11. And let's play that. That's the sort of subtlety I'm after. And there you have it. In just a few steps, we've transformed the scene into a glowing, drifting, underwater
wonderland. So that's just a taste of what's possible with effects in Premiere. There are countless creative options, so take some time to explore, mix and match, and try the
Surprise Me! button for extra fun. What you’ll learn Preview and apply effects in the Film Impacts dashboard Use the Film Impacts dashboard to see a preview of the available
effects before applying the one that fits your scene best. Customize your effect with the Surprise Me! button Try using the Surprise Me! button to see different variations of your
chosen effect. Customize the look further by adjusting the available parameters. Add keyframes to change the intensity over time Give your clips a dynamic look using keyframes
change properties, like the master value, over time. Animate text with motion effects Use the Film Impacts Motion FX to animate your text and titles without adding keyframes. Then,
customize the motion using the Surprise Me! button, or adjusting the parameters in the Effect Controls panel. Instruction and footage by Ashley Kennedy Skills Visual effects
Effects Creative effects Related tutorials Elevate your project with cinematic video transitions Video5 min Adding sound effects to enhance your travel videos Video4 min Free
analog video glitch pack. Article3 min Was this tutorial helpful? Adobe, Inc. Creativity & Design PDF & E-signatures Marketing & Commerce Learn & Support Home Learn Premiere Create
a professional look using Color Match and Curves Premiere Learn Create a professional look using Color Match and Curves Leverage Color Match and Curves to give your videos a
professional and consistent look. Published January 5, 2026 View transcript 00:01 Introduction Struggling to make your videos look cohesive when using footage from different
sources? Or maybe you want to bring out a specific color to make your visuals pop? I am Jay Espitia-Pierluissi, and I've been running a video production business for over five
years, working with clients all around the world, as well as coaching other videographers on how to scale their business past $10,000 a month. In this tutorial, we'll show you how
to master color correction in Adobe Premiere Pro. By the end, your videos will not only look consistent, but also vibrant and engaging. Let's dive in. 00:33 Matching color across
different video sources First, let's tackle color matching videos from different sources. Whether you're working with a different camera or lighting conditions, Premiere Pro has
powerful tools to help you achieve a consistent look. Select the clip you want to match and go into the Lumetri Color panel by choosing Window, then Lumetri Color. Click on Color
Wheels & Match and then select Comparison View. Choose a Reference frame from the clip you want to match to, click Apply Match and Premiere Pro will automatically adjust the colors
to match the reference. With this, your videos from different sources will look like they were shot in the same setting. Next, we'll use curves 01:11 Enhancing specific colors with
Lumetri curves to enhance a specific color in your footage. This technique allows you to adjust the intensity and make your colors stand out. In the Lumetri Color panel, navigate
to the Curves selection. Use the Hue vs Sat curve to select the color you want to adjust. Click on the curve to add points and drag them to increase or decrease the saturation of
the selected color. You can also use the Hue vs Hue curve to change the hue of the selected color, giving you a precise control over your color adjustments. 01:44 Refining color
intensity and hue control This method allows you to bring out specific colors and make your videos look more visually appealing. 01:50 Recap of professional color correction
techniques By mastering these color correction techniques in Premiere Pro, you'll be able to create videos that look professional and polished. Whether you're matching footage from
different sources or enhancing specific colors, these tools will help you to achieve the look that you want. Note: Stock assets provided are for practice purposes only. See terms.
What you'll learn Color Match different clips Using different cameras, lighting, or locations can change the look of your footage. Use Color Match in the Lumetri Color panel to
give your clips a consistent color. Change intensity using curves Make specific colors in your footage stand out using Lumetri curves like Hue vs Saturation or change specific
colors using Hue vs Hue. Instruction & Footage by Jay Espitia Pierluissi Adobe Stock Contributors Frequently Asked Music Skills Promotional video Color grading Curves Related
tutorials Make your video stand out with better color Article2 min Make basic color adjustments Video3 min Color correct your travel videos to provide consistency Video4 min Was
this tutorial helpful? Adobe, Inc. Creativity & Design PDF & E-signatures Marketing & Commerce Learn & Support Home Learn Premiere Mix audio like a pro Premiere Learn Mix audio
like a pro Level up your promotional videos with pro audio tools including Synchronize, Auto-level, Enhance Speech, and Remix. Published January 5, 2026 View transcript 00:01
Introduction Are you tired of your video sounding unprofessional? Whether you're juggling multiple audio sources, struggling with inconsistent volume levels, or trying to make your
speech clear, Adobe Premiere Pro has the solution. I am Jay Espitia-Pierluissi, and I've been running a video production business for over five years, working with clients all
around the world, as well as coaching other videographers on how to scale their business past $10,000 a month. In this tutorial, we'll show you how to transform your audio tracks
from noisy and disorganized to clean and professional using Adobe Premiere Pro. Let's dive in and make your videos sound as amazing as they look. 00:41 Syncing audio from multiple
sources First up, syncing audio from multiple sources. Imagine you've recorded an audio separately on a lav mic and a camera mic, Premiere Pro makes this process seamless. Here's
how to do it. First, select your video and audio clips in the Project panel. Then right click and choose Merge Clips... Use the Audio option to sync the clips automatically. Now
all your audio is perfectly in sync, saving you hours of manual alignment. Now let's talk about auto leveling. 01:10 Auto leveling audio with Essential Sound Consistent loudness
across your clips is crucial for a professional sound. Premiere Pro's loudness radar can help. First go to the Essential Sound panel, go to Windows, then Essential Sound. Click on
the audio clip you want to edit, go to Loudness and then Auto-Match. You can do this with all your clips. This will ensure all your clips maintain a consistent volume level
throughout. No more sudden jumps or drops in audio levels. Clear crisp dialog is essential. 01:47 Enhancing dialog clarity and speech Here's how to enhance speech in Premiere Pro.
Select the dialog track, with the auto tagging update, you can just click on the Dialog icon and the panel will automatically open. Clip labeling is automatic in version 24.4 and
newer. Use the Enhance Speech slider to clean up the audio, reducing background noise and improving clarity. Your speech will now cut through, clearly making it easy for your
audience to understand every word. Now let's talk about music, 02:18 Working with music: stock and remixing stock, remix and ducking. Adding the right background music sets the
tone for your video. Premiere Pro offers a range of stock music options. Go to Essential Sound and click on Browse. Choose from a variety of tracks available and drag your
selection to the Timeline. Need to fit a music track to your video length? Use the remix feature. Select the music clip and go to the Essential Sound panel, adjust the Duration and
Premiere Pro will intelligently edit the music to fit your desired length. Finally, ducking ensures your dialog stands out 02:53 Using ducking for balanced dialog and music even
with background music. Here's how. Select your music track and navigate to the Essential Sound panel, enable Ducking and adjust the Sensitivity, reducing the music volume when
dialog is present. Now your background music will automatically lower during speech, ensuring clear and professional audio balance. By mastering these audio techniques in Premiere
Pro, you'll elevate your video production to a whole new level. Syncing multiple audio sources, auto leveling, enhancing speech, and managing music tracks will become second
nature. Hope this was helpful. Now let's make your video sound incredible. Note: Stock assets provided are for practice purposes only. See terms. What you'll learn Sync multiple
audio sources If you record audio on multiple devices, you can synchronize the two clips directly from the Project panel, saving you time compared to manually matching both audio
sources. Auto-Match Loudness Avoid sudden drops in your audio levels using Auto-Match within the Essential Sound panel. Auto-Match will automatically adjust your clip’s loudness to
consistent level, ensuring smooth and even audio throughout your project. Enhance Speech Reduce background noise and improve dialogue clarity using AI powered Enhance Speech in the
Essential Sound panel. Use the slider to change the intensity of the effect. Add and customize music In the Essential Sound panel, you’ll find a variety of free and paid stock
music options. When you find one you like, use the Remix tool to make sure it’s the correct length for your video. Refine your audio mix with Ducking Ensure your music doesn’t
overpower your dialogue by enabling ducking. This will automatically lower the volume of your music clips when dialogue is playing. Instruction & Footage by Jay Espitia Pierluissi
Adobe Stock Contributors Frequently Asked Music Skills Audio editing Audio Promotional video Related tutorials Perfect your audio mix Video3 min Adding sound effects to enhance
your travel videos Video4 min Bring your travel videos to life with music Video2 min Was this tutorial helpful? Adobe, Inc. Creativity & Design PDF & E-signatures Marketing &
Commerce Learn & Support Home Learn Premiere Your guide to combining and trimming travel clips Premiere Learn Your guide to combining and trimming travel clips Explore top tips and
shortcuts for turning your footage into attention-grabbing videos. Published January 5, 2026 View transcript 00:01 Introduction Keyboard shortcuts are the most efficient way to
quickly edit your films and save time in the process. Use your arrow keys to quickly toggle through your clips, 00:05 Using keyboard shortcuts for fast clip selection and editing
as well as shortcuts for fast forward and reverse to go through the footage quickly and find the best moments. You can then cut your clip in a few different ways. The most
fundamental and basic way inside of Premiere Pro is by pressing C or using the Razor Tool in your Toolbar, along the left side panel. But for an easier and quicker way to cut your
clips as you're going through your selects, I have set the letter J to the Add Edit shortcut. And once I cut the clip, press W, which is my shortcut for Ripple Delete, which simply
deletes all the footage that I've cut previously. You will then follow this process until you get to the end of all those clips, essentially pulling out all the best moments in a
very efficient and quick way so we can dive into the edit as soon as possible. Now let's move on to properly labeling and structuring your clips even more. 00:46 Labeling clips,
color coding, and adding markers When it comes to labeling and color coding clips, it's simply a preference. I like to do this so that I can label my favorite moments once I go
through the selects and then drag those clips that are labeled for different scenes above my Timeline, so when I'm scrubbing through the Timeline, I can see them a little bit more
quickly. You can then also add markers and Chapter Markers to your Timeline by going to Marker and scroll to Add Marker, or by pressing M and double-clicking into that marker to
make specific notes on the scene or the section that you're referring to. Once you feel good about your labels and your Chapter Markers, we are going to move on to the next
section, all about Pancake Editing and a more efficient way to start editing those clips. Once I've gone through and made my initial selects, 01:30 Creating a rough cut and
organizing sequences I create another sequence with the exact same sequence settings, and I name this a draft cut or a rough cut and this is where we're going to actually start
pulling those selects and building the film. Open up both sequences and they will naturally open up side-by-side in tabs next to each other. But we're all about efficiency and
time-saving hacks, so what you're going to do is drag that draft cut 01:52 Using pancake editing to build your timeline efficiently and pull it down right below your select
sequence until that purple line hovers on your Timeline. Those sequences will now be stacked on top of each other rather than next to each other. This method is a bit more advanced
and doesn't always have to be implemented, but it is the most proficient way to easily build the early versions of your draft. You will now go through your selects and just start
dragging those moments that you want to bring into your cut from the select sequence above onto your now new draft or rough cut sequence. This method of editing is known as Pancake
Editing, and if you get really, really efficient at this, it will save you a ton of time with overwriting clips and just get into the process of actually editing your film much
quicker. This is really where I feel the creative juices start to flow, and your film and story begin to take shape. In chapter four, we start to refine our rough cut and continue
our editing process. Let's move on. Open in-app What you'll learn Create a selects sequence To begin assembling your best clips, create a new sequence in the "01_Sequences" bin by
going to File > New > Sequence or pressing COMMAND + N. In the Settings tab, set the Timebase to 23.976, Frame Size to 1920 x 1080, and Pixel Aspect Ratio to Square Pixels (1.0).
Name your sequence something recognizable like "MY-ADOBE-FILM_SELECTS," save the preset, and click OK. Then, drag your clips from the "02_Footage" bin into the Timeline. Edit
faster with shortcuts Speed up your editing by using keyboard shortcuts. Press L to play forward, the down and up arrows to move through clips, COMMAND + K to add a cut, and
COMMAND + BACKSPACE for a ripple delete. You can customize shortcuts too: assign J to Add Edit and W to Ripple Delete in the Keyboard Shortcuts menu. Label and mark your clips To
stay organized, use color labels and markers. Right-click a clip to assign a label color, press M to add a marker, and use Window > Markers to add comments or edit marker colors.
These tools help you keep track of important clips and structure your edit. Try pancake editing Pancake editing means stacking timelines to easily drag clips from one sequence into
another. Create a new draft sequence using the same preset as before, and name it "MY-ADOBE-FILM_DRAFT_V001." In the Timeline, drag this new sequence below your selects sequence to
stack them. Then, review your selects and drag the best clips into the draft timeline. Instruction by James Bonanno Skills Shortcuts Markers Video editing Related tutorials Add
clips to your sequence Video3 min Video editing learning guide Video3 min Speed up your workflow. Article5 min Was this tutorial helpful? Adobe, Inc. Creativity & Design PDF &
E-signatures Marketing & Commerce Learn & Support Home Learn Premiere Captivate through color with Fanny Texier. Premiere Learn Captivate through color with Fanny Texier. Captivate
through color with Fanny Texier. Published December 11, 2025 See how documentary filmmaker Fanny Texier fine-tunes color to focus her video’s mood and emotion in this quick Adobe
Premiere tutorial. Lay your color foundation. Instantly enhance the look of your footage using Auto Color — AI-backed color correction that balances color, improves exposure,
corrects contrast, and more. Get perfect color with precision control. Finesse the sliders to create something dramatic. Then take it further by diving into the Curves settings and
adjusting highlights and tonal ranges. Keep calm and copy-paste on. Once you’ve got the desired look, you can copy and paste the Lumetri Color effect to other clips so you don't
have to re-create them from scratch. Go for a consistent look. Adjustment layers help you to create cohesion across scenes — they’re also nondestructive so you can get experimental
with color grading. Skills Color Related tutorials Make your video stand out with better color Article2 min Make basic color adjustments Video3 min Create a professional look using
Color Match and Curves Video3 min Was this tutorial helpful? Adobe, Inc. Creativity & Design PDF & E-signatures Marketing & Commerce Learn & Support Home Learn Premiere Speed up
your workflow. Premiere Learn Speed up your workflow. Watch the short tutorial video above to see all the steps. Then check out additional resources to use the skills you’ve
learned. Published June 17, 2025 View transcript - Hey, what's up, folks? My name is Karl Shakur, and today, I'm taking you on a journey across space and time. Well, not really,
I'm just gonna show you a - couple of tips and tricks that you can use to make your cutting and - editing in Premiere Pro super quick and super easy. (music) Now, if you just jump
right - into the timeline here, we can see what we have - is a very long clip. I've just taken a full - export of one of my videos and I'm just gonna utilize this as an example for
cutting together. If we're using the regular tools that we usually have on the - side here to cut this clip, we'd have to keep coming back here to find the razor tool, click the
razor tool, say I wanted to get rid of this, I would have to come back here, hit selection tool, click on this, delete it, and then move it all the way to the back. Now, we did get
the job done, but I'm gonna show you a very, very, very quick way to do this. Now, everything I just did, I'm gonna do it fast - with a couple of buttons. Look at that, hit this,
boom, boom, boom, disappeared, whoa. Whoa, that's speedy, you like that, don't you? You like that. Well, I'm so unfamiliar - with the actual tools, I had to write them down. I had
to write down the names of the tools just so I could let you - know what I'm using. But what I use is Z and X. Z is "Add Edit" and X is "Ripple Delete". What "Add Edit" does is -
it actually cuts across anything that is selected. So if I click on this and I hit "Add Edit", it'll just start cutting. If I wanna cut this, rather than coming all the - way here
to find my razor tool and coming all the way - back down here to click it, we don't like to do that, we're just gonna use our Z key, Z. Z, wanna cut there, oh look, I wanna cut
there. Guess what, Z, done, cut. Now, you might be saying to me, Karl, I am hitting Z and X as hard - as I can on my computers but it's not working. What sorcery are you doing?
It's simple, you just gotta come up here to your options here, into your little bar, and click on keyboard shortcuts. (music) Now, if you have the - stock keyboard shortcuts that
come with Premiere, you have Z and X set - to some arbitrary thing that I don't use. I don't even know what they use. What I like to change these to is I change Z to "Add edit" and
I'll change X to "Ripple Delete". And what you can do is - you can click on Z here, search in this bar, "Add Edit", take that and drag it - up to the certain key that you want it
to be on, and boom, just like that, it's switched. You're ready to go. Now, the Ripple Delete and the Add Edit are such fundamental and important tools because they allow you to
cut fast. (indistinct) I'm look, oh, ah, I wanna cut that and then - remove the past clip, I can just scrub to - exactly where I was, yep, it looks good about there. Add Edit
again. Rather than trying to delete, and making everything squeeze to the right and maybe coming and - dragging the clip and, oh, missing and sliding to the left. Or maybe you
delete it - and you come this way and it's all clumsy and you're all off. Rather than doing that, you just hit one key, X, boom. And that little thing disappears. It absolutely
disappears. So this is one of the many, - many things that I use to make editing a very smooth process. You want Premiere Pro - to be utilized as a tool and not bog you down as - a
piece of technology. So I like to try and simplify things and make it as easy as possible for me so that I can just focus - on the design vision or focus on the creative and just
focus on creating rather than messing around with the tools and seeing what it's doing. Even tweaking your work - spaces, for example. Now, I don't think this - is the standard
workspace. If I come up here into my workspaces, I'm actually working on a workspace that I call "Cuttin". I have something for two screens, when I'm editing on a - computer that
has two screens, I have for a 32 inch workspace or assembly, for example. Everything should be different for every single person, it should work differently - depending on what you
have. Say I'm trying to edit a couple of stories for my Instagram, I'm gonna create another sequence here. As you can see, I'm not necessarily using the real estate as wisely as I
can. So I've created a workspace that goes very, very well with this, I think I called it "Vertical Cut" or something silly like that. "Vertical Edit" If I click on that, boom,
it's perfect. I have all the real estate on - the right here on the screen, I can drag clips from, say I wanna edit this drone clip, drag it right onto there, fills the whole
screen. Versus using a panel like - "Cuttin", for example, and as you can see, it's really tiny, I can't really see what's going on. I might have to grab my glasses - and see
what's going on, I can't really see. We wanna make sure that you're focusing on the art of actually creating and not letting Premiere Pro bog you down because it's a fantastic
tool. So in conclusion, a few things that you can do to make your editing - go smoothly and quickly is to set up your keyboard shortcuts, "Add Edit" and "Ripple Delete" Those two
are chef's kiss, I love using that: chef's kiss. Those two work very, very well together. And also you can sort out your panels so you can focus on creating - and focus on the art.
That's it folks. Hopefully you've been - able to learn a little bit from this little short video, I'll see you in the next one. Peace. (music) - “I feel so lucky that I get to be
out here exploring the world… documenting it and sharing it with you.” Select, delete, and ripple-delete clips. Learn how to work faster with clips in the timeline. Create keyboard
shortcuts. Make the keyboard your own by customizing shortcuts for a faster workflow. Related tutorials Your guide to combining and trimming travel clips Video3 min Video editing
learning guide Video3 min Add clips to your sequence Video3 min Was this tutorial helpful? Adobe, Inc. Creativity & Design PDF & E-signatures Marketing & Commerce Learn & Support
Home Learn Premiere Get creative with unusable footage Premiere Learn Get creative with unusable footage Breathe new life into lost shots by exploring Lumetri Color panel options
in Adobe Premiere Pro. Published August 9, 2023 As long as your shots are in focus and properly framed, any footage that has unfortunate exposure or color issues may provide you
with opportunities to make entirely new color choices for scenes in your project. Starting in the Color workspace (Window > Workspaces > Color), select the clip in your sequence
and then click the Basic Correction section of the Lumetri Color panel to expand it. For an overexposed shot, you’d typically want to lower the Highlights, Shadows, and Saturation
values. Adjust a value beyond the constraints of a slider by clicking inside the numeric value and dragging farther left (or right). Depending on the camera or video format you
shot with, you might be able to extract usable details from blown-out portions. If you can’t achieve something that looks natural, consider using the shot for an entirely different
purpose. Expand the Creative section, open the Look drop-down menu, and choose a preset that sets the mood you’re looking for. We chose SL Blue Day4Nite to give it a day-for-night
effect and increased the Intensity slider to add drama. Make further enhancements by adjusting the curves. After expanding the Curves section, click a control point (or more than
one) in the RGB Curves box and drag the curve to change the overall shadows, midtones, and highlights in the shot to your satisfaction. To make more nuanced color adjustments
within the shadows, midtones, and highlights, expand the Color Wheels & Match section. Click in the middle of a wheel and drag the control point toward a side of the wheel that
either reduces a color cast you don’t want or enhances one you do want. After making all these color grade adjustments in the Lumetri Color panel, you may want to return to
previous sections and make more changes there to compensate. See what our version of the day-for-night effect looks like in the following video, and then try out these tools
yourself using the problematic clips we’ve provided in our sample project. Adobe Stock Contributor F8studio Skills Enhancing color Lighting Street photography Related tutorials How
Lexi Gunvaldson elevates the art of title sequencing. Video6 min Track subjects across your clip with AI-powered mask tools Video4 min Put text behind your subject with AI-powered
Object Mask Video3 min Was this tutorial helpful? Adobe, Inc. Creativity & Design PDF & E-signatures Marketing & Commerce Learn & Support Home Learn Premiere Video editing learning
guide Premiere Learn Video editing learning guide Explore curated video editing resources and discover guides to editing your first video. Published December 22, 2025 The process
of video editing is where your vision will start to come to life. While every video is unique, the basics of editing are the same whether you're filming a summer blockbuster or a
small business promo. Getting started can feel overwhelming, but this video editing guide has everything you need to edit your first video, learn about top video editing tools in
Adobe Premiere, and understand core video editing concepts. Video Editing Essentials This series of 7 tutorials will take you through the essentials of basic video editing and have
you on your way to completing your first video project. This first video will show you the basics of the Adobe Premiere workspace and orient you to key surfaces like the Project
Panel, Source Monitor, Timeline Panel, and Program Monitor. View transcript 00:01 Introduction Hello everyone, I'm Hallease, a filmmaker and storyteller based in Atlanta, Georgia.
Welcome to Adobe Premiere Pro. Whatever story you are trying to tell, Premiere Pro is the one application you'll need to assemble video clips, add effects, sweeten audio clips, and
so much more. Now, before you can begin crafting your story, you'll want to understand how the interface is set up. This is what Premiere Pro looks like when you first open a
project. To support you as you create your video project, 00:26 Overview of the Premiere Pro interface and panels the interface is divided into sections called panels, and each
panel serves a different purpose during your edit. Let's start with the Project panel. 00:35 Project panel and Source monitor basics This acts as your media organizer. It's where
imported clips, music, and other elements reside. If you double click on any of the clips in the Project panel, they'll open in the Source monitor where you can review them more
easily. Some of the controls in the Source monitor should look familiar. There's a Play and a Stop button and a Timeline that shows progress through the clip as you play it. The
blue line is called the Playhead, and you can drag it back and forth to preview the video quickly. Once you've identified which of your clips you want to string together into your
video, 01:10 Building a sequence in the Timeline and viewing it it's time to add them into a sequence in the Timeline panel. A sequence is where you'll arrange all of your media
into your video project. Think of it as like where you build out your video. You can add video clips, music, visual effects, and titles to your sequence. When your clips and other
media are added to the Timeline, you'll be able to watch your sequence in the Program monitor. Just press Play. Similar to the Source monitor, your Timeline also has a blue line or
Playhead, and as it moves along the Timeline, the exact moment of the sequence is shown in the Program monitor. Now, because it's so customizable, 01:44 Resetting and managing
workspaces sometimes things accidentally get a bit out of order. For example, you could open the Essential Graphics panel, move the Project panel, or even close the Timeline. If
things ever get too crazy, just go to Window, then Workspaces and Reset to Saved Layout. It will go right back to where you started. I have barely scratched the surface of all the
panels in Adobe Premiere Pro. There are many other panels like the Essential Sound panel for Audio editing, and Lumetri Color for color correction and grading, but generally the
Project panel, the Source monitor, the Timeline, and the Program monitor are your go tos for every project. 02:27 Recap of the four essential panels So to recap, there are four
main panels that you'll use every time you edit a video: The Project panel, which helps you organize and find your media, the Source monitor that shows you a preview of your clips
selected from the Project panel, the Timeline panel where you arrange your clips into the story you want to tell, and then finally the Program monitor where you watch it all come
together. In the next video, I'll show you how to import and preview clips. I'll see you over there. Continue the series to learn more about importing clips, creating sequences,
refining edits, working with title graphics, and mixing audio. Import and preview clips Import and organize your travel footage Add clips to your sequence Refine your video edit
Create an animated title graphic Mix audio like a pro Video editing tools and how to use them As you learn and practice the basics of video editing, understanding the tools you
work with will help you develop your own process. These articles from the Adobe Premiere User Guide will you gain skills with basic video editing tools and capabilities as you work
through your projects. Learn about basic tools for trimming clips. Use the Timeline Panel to create sequences. Customize your clip editing workflow by setting trim and playback
preferences. Get best practices for mixing audio faster and editing efficiently. Video editing concepts to help you build your practice The more you practice your video editing
skills, the more you'll develop preferences around style, quality, workflow, and equipment to help you create the video products you're interested in. This list of resources will
help you develop deeper domain knowledge around core video editing concepts to help you cultivate your own specific approach to the craft. Introduction to video editing How to find
the best laptops for video editing An introduction to the video timeline A beginner's guide to video resolution Calibrate your monitor to give your video the best possible color
How to convert videos with Adobe Media Encoder and Premiere Pro Add subtitles and captions so your viewers catch every word Select a perfect aspect ratio for your film How to
extract audio and separate audio from video files How to add sound effects to videos How to enhance video quality How to add video filters in Premiere Pro How to cut and trim
videos in Adobe Premiere Pro For an in depth look into editing with Premiere Pro, check out Valentina Vee's introductory course. Skills Movie Sequences Video editing Get started
Related tutorials Create a travel video from start to finish Video1 min Your guide to combining and trimming travel clips Video3 min Adding sound effects to enhance your travel
videos Video4 min Was this tutorial helpful?