registry and guest updates, it’s *all* in one place. Set it up in minutes at Zola.com. If planning your wedding feels like a second job…we’re here to help. From your wedding
website and RSVPs to your registry and guest updates, it’s *all* in one place. Set it up in minutes at Zola.com. welcome.zola.com Sign Up u/Limit760 avatar Limit760 • 2y ago Charge
more. Just double it. There’s couples who want inexpensive and they’ll go with whoever has the cheapest rates. But there’s also couples who have a bit more to spend so price
yourself above the bottom and you’ll find you get a different clientele who appreciate your skill and images 3 more replies DonkDontLie • 2y ago If you are getting under cut at
$750-950 then I would strongly recommend going above the $1,000 mark minimum. The sub $1k market in my area is tremendously saturated by people who have bought a camera and have
jumped into wedding photography and some are amazing and some are “Bless your heart, you bought a camera…” u/cameraburns avatar cameraburns • 2y ago • Edited 2y ago I am currently
charging $750-950 for full day coverage and free engagement session for local weddings. Too cheap? I think so. When I started my business, I shot for my first weddings for free and
did my best to get into a higher price bracket as soon as possible. I had the financial buffer to do it, and I really had to craft an online presence to match that higher perceived
quality, but I think it was worth the stress. When you charge this little, your clients will necessarily include people who are looking for the cheapest option possible, don't
really value photography and/or only want someone to push the button while they try to run the show. Working very hard to book someone and then have them turn out to be less than
the ideal client to work with can be demoralizing enough to make you quit, especially if you happen to be passionate about wedding photography. -shandyyy- • 2y ago You need to
shake off the victim mindset. All of your comments here are about how it is other people's fault you aren't booking clients, but that just isn't the case. Your clients are out
there, but you clearly have done very little to find them. You say you've been in business for four years. In that time what marketing avenues have you tried other than facebook
ads? What research have you done on pricing in your specific market in combination with the psychology of pricing, and how have you implemented that in your business? How do you
portray value to potential clients? How much networking have you done within the industry? With venues? Planners? Other photographers? Videographers? How much attention have you
given your branding and messaging to ensure it would appeal to your target audience? Have you defined your target audience? Do you know who they are? Where they work? What hobbies
do they have? How do you fit in to their life? What would make that ideal client want to work with you? You'll never get high end clients when you have bargain basement prices.
That's just the facts, so if you want to start attracting luxury level weddings, you are going to have to create a luxury product, and figure out how to sell it. I'll give you a
tip though, those clients probably don't care about facebook ads. Kittyisaboo • 2y ago Hey! Check out my AMA on how to get more clients, there are a few things in there you can do
to advertise yourself, especially if you have a lot of positive client feedback! u/DaughterofMarilyn avatar DaughterofMarilyn • 2y ago Minimum charge to be taken seriously in
Louisville KY is about $2700 - $3500 for a full day. u/caitlacoop avatar caitlacoop • 2y ago I won’t do the concept justice here by trying to explain it myself, but there’s a great
interview with Samm Blake where she talks about pricing yourself accordingly since certain couples won’t even consider you if your rates are too low:
https://adammason.com/150-how-to-book-20000-weddings-with-samm-blake/ u/caitlacoop avatar caitlacoop • 2y ago Look past the fact that the title is “how to book 20k weddings”
there’s great insight for non-luxury price points, too! u/Typeform avatar u/Typeform • Promoted If r/userexperience designed forms, they'd look like Typeform. Learn More
typeform.com Thumbnail image: If r/userexperience designed forms, they'd look like Typeform. 444rj44 • 2y ago this but it does factor into what i can charge And it’s the blunt
truth. I think quality of the work trumps all excuses. if the work is good then thats enough. but if you arent getting that exposure no one will know if youre good. 2 more replies
u/dream43 avatar dream43 • 2y ago You are going to burn out before you know it with those prices. pittseyspider • 2y ago Recommend attending styled shoots to gain more portfolio
work for the types of weddings you want to attract NoAge422 • 2y ago raise the prices slightly every year, and try to get your existing couples to refer to their friends, give them
maybe a couple % off and you're good! benny12b • 2y ago I’m not opening my bag for a full day for anything under $2500. Obviously you do you, but good lord is that price low
cruorviaticus • 2y ago Too cheap? I charge $1250 for an engagement session. Kastle69 • 2y ago You're literally holding yourself back with this "sahm know everyone! Poor me!" stuff
lol Just charge a reasonable amount and the clients will keep showing up, just for your price range instead? Clearly your marketing is working so just tweak it to be higher
priced/catered to more luxury based guests/venues? And then change your website/social media/ yourself to fit this new brand. Also btw most "stay at home moms" i know are 1. At
home and 2. Only doing a few weddings a year. So. I really feel like this is a you being in your head thing. If you book 13-20 clients a year you have talent, marketing, and
reviews. Just use these things to level up. u/Momentusquotidian avatar Momentusquotidian • 2y ago Yeah sometimes too cheap is a warning that you’re inexperienced. I was on a
beginner FB page and for their FIRST wedding the person charged $100 an hour. blkhatwhtdog • 2y ago I started in high school in the late 60s. They routinely published engagement
notices in the town newspaper, I'd call them. In the 80s it was yellow page ad and a list of prospects from a free wedding guide advertised in bridal magazines. Starting around
then and ever more so today the best way to get clients was to become a preferred vendor at upscale venues and churches or small private bridal shows (Nordstrom was the best) New
to Reddit? Create your account and connect with a world of communities. Continue With Phone Number By continuing, you agree to our User Agreement and acknowledge that you
understand the Privacy Policy. Related Answers Section Related Answers Tips for getting wedding photography clients Strategies to attract wedding clients Ways to increase wedding
bookings Best wedding advertising websites How to generate wedding leads More posts you may like What do you do to get consistent Leads? r/WeddingPhotography • 3y ago What do you
do to get consistent Leads? 8 upvotes · 21 comments What extra customer services do you provide to your clients that separate you from the rest? r/WeddingPhotography • 3y ago What
extra customer services do you provide to your clients that separate you from the rest? 24 upvotes · 64 comments Tips for how to get wedding clients! r/videography • 1y ago Tips
for how to get wedding clients! 11 upvotes · 28 comments Promoted sidebar promoted post thumbnail Single best marketing tip for this booking season? r/WeddingPhotography • 4mo ago
Single best marketing tip for this booking season? 6 upvotes · 13 comments Need Advice: Struggling to Get Clients Despite Running Instagram Ads (Wedding/Events Photography) Canada
GTA, r/WeddingPhotography • 1y ago Need Advice: Struggling to Get Clients Despite Running Instagram Ads (Wedding/Events Photography) Canada GTA, 9 upvotes · 20 comments Unhappy
client r/WeddingPhotography • 7mo ago Unhappy client 21 upvotes · 56 comments How are you booking clients? r/WeddingPhotography • 7mo ago How are you booking clients? 18 upvotes ·
32 comments what wedding websites/pages are you apart of that actually generate leads? r/WeddingPhotography • 2y ago what wedding websites/pages are you apart of that actually
generate leads? 2 upvotes · 16 comments Promoted sidebar promoted post thumbnail How to get clients? r/petsitting • 1mo ago How to get clients? 13 upvotes · 40 comments Help to
book more wedding clients? r/WeddingPhotography • 4y ago Help to book more wedding clients? 10 upvotes · 25 comments How did you book your first wedding? r/WeddingPhotography • 8y
ago How did you book your first wedding? 11 upvotes · 19 comments Seeking Clients? How are you doing it? r/interiordesigner • 3mo ago Seeking Clients? How are you doing it? 8
upvotes · 21 comments Wedding Photographers Leads r/delhi • 26d ago Wedding Photographers Leads 3 upvotes · 4 comments How do YOU get your clients? r/DigitalMarketing • 2y ago How
do YOU get your clients? 17 upvotes · 56 comments How to find new clients? r/WeddingPhotography • 7y ago How to find new clients? 22 upvotes · 25 comments Clients that never
download their photos r/WeddingPhotography • 3mo ago Clients that never download their photos 130 upvotes · 98 comments Struggling to book weddings in my rural town. what am I
doing wrong? r/WeddingPhotography • 5mo ago Struggling to book weddings in my rural town. what am I doing wrong? r/WeddingPhotography - Struggling to book weddings in my rural
town. what am I doing wrong? 16 upvotes · 37 comments Advice: So I’ve been having a hard time booking clients and I want to know some of the best ways to put yourself out there?
Like how do you guys get more bookings when you were first starting out? r/WeddingPhotography • 5y ago Advice: So I’ve been having a hard time booking clients and I want to know
some of the best ways to put yourself out there? Like how do you guys get more bookings when you were first starting out? 11 upvotes · 14 comments How do you all get customers?
r/SaaS • 2y ago How do you all get customers? 29 upvotes · 28 comments Help Booking More Weddings r/WeddingPhotography • 2y ago Help Booking More Weddings 11 upvotes · 37 comments
How do you get clients! r/agency • 1y ago How do you get clients! 31 upvotes · 82 comments How do you get open houses? r/realtors • 2y ago How do you get open houses? 10 upvotes ·
31 comments I'm new to this, but finding clients has been excessively demoralising, does it get better? r/WeddingPhotography • 2y ago I'm new to this, but finding clients has been
excessively demoralising, does it get better? 3 upvotes · 24 comments How to get clients? r/WeddingPhotography • 6y ago How to get clients? 9 upvotes · 12 comments Couples
photography business is slow, how do I get seen? r/photography • 5mo ago Couples photography business is slow, how do I get seen? 1 upvote · 17 comments View Post in 日本語 See more
Community Info Section r/WeddingPhotography Join Wedding photography This is the home of the wedding photographer community on Reddit and the place for wedding photographers,
second photographers, assistants, and those aspiring to be wedding photographers. This is a discussion based community and the place to share experiences, business insight,
creative ideas about our work, and more. Show more Public Top Posts Reddit reReddit: Top posts of May 24, 2024 Reddit reReddit: Top posts of May 2024 Reddit reReddit: Top posts of
2024 Reddit Rules Privacy Policy User Agreement Your Privacy Choices Accessibility Reddit, Inc. © 2026. All rights reserved. Collapse Navigation Skip to main content Providing
models with pictures from paid shoots : r/photography r/photography Search in r/photography Get App Log In Expand user menu Skip to NavigationSkip to Right Sidebar Back Go to
photography r/photography • 2y ago Zimifrein Providing models with pictures from paid shoots Discussion For the first time, I've paid a model so we could do a photoshoot. When we
do TFPs it's normal for us to provide the photos, as we're litteraly exchanging their time for prints. However, I was wondering if we're expected to still do it when we're paying
for their services. By logic I would say we wouldn't be supposed to, but in the spirit of continued cooperation with the models, specially when you enjoy working with them, it kind
of sounds douchy to not do it. What do you think or what's your experience? Archived post. New comments cannot be posted and votes cannot be cast. Upvote 27 Downvote 38 Go to
comments Share u/OpenAI avatar OpenAI • Promoted Edit photos and remove background people or objects with ChatGPT. Sign Up chatgpt.com Thumbnail image: Edit photos and remove
background people or objects with ChatGPT. Sort by: Best Search Comments Expand comment search Comments Section gingergirlies • 2y ago Every possible scenario is correct. You’ve
given us no real info. Why are you paying this time? What is the purpose of the shoot? Why is the model working with you? As a general concept the model should be able to show the
work they’ve done. So give them the finished pics you used unless there is a good reason not to. Good reasons are you are shooting for Nike’s new winter catalog and they’ve
embargoed it. There are plenty of models out there who are only going to work with you for the paycheck. Decent portfolio photos are a bonus. There are plenty more who need some
pay and still need to build their portfolio, or need content. Talk with the model. I work with a lot of models who are happiest with some $ and some content that they can use on
their own. So I build that in. Maybe it is $100 an hour if they only want cash but $75 if they want shared use or less if we are spending any time shooting anything just for them.
Also fyi… most likely if this is an experienced model she has a bigger presence in the world than you do. Having her share the pics is going to get you more exposure and more
potential shoots down the line than your own usage will. drippyneon • 2y ago Having her share the pics is going to get you more exposure and more potential shoots down the line
Just to clear this up for anyone reading, this happens so rarely that I might as well say it will never happen. I've shot with models with multiple hundreds of thousands of
followers and had my work shared by them, and never once received any work from it. Same goes for being tagged by bands/artists with an even higher follower count...never once
booked anything from pretty crazy exposure, and I make my living doing this and stay more than busy, so I know my work is up to par. People very, very, very rarely hire from
Instagram...they just don't. They get people that they know, or people that know their friends, or they get recommendations from friends. I'm not saying it'll never happen, but
it's so rare that you might as well not even focus on it at all. u/bulk_logic avatar bulk_logic • 2y ago • Edited 2y ago People hire through instagram all the time, you might not
have the same demographic of clients that others do. And you usually still have to go through networking and establishing connections through the exposure. They get people that
they know, or people that know their friends, or they get recommendations from friends. That's on you for not being "people they know." It's not really "exposure" but connecting
with people through your clients, same as any other industry. 3 more replies gingergirlies • 2y ago I’m not saying that the model sharing her pics is the basis of my business. I’m
saying it is better if she does than if she doesn’t. Or even worst case scenario it is not bad, OP loses nothing even if he gains nothing. People definitely find me because of the
models. That has definitely lead to bookings and sales. u/i_like_photos avatar i_like_photos • 2y ago I'm a photographer who regularly hires models for photo shoots. I'm not a
professional, just a very serious hobbyist. The models I hire are for art nude and figure study photo shoots. The models' fees and the location rentals costs can certainly add up.
Even though I am hiring and paying my models, I always provide them with photos, 100% of the time. The reasons are pretty straightforward: The models always have a larger following
on Instagram than I do. Providing them with photos they can share in which I am tagged brings more eyeballs to my work. When they share photos, it always results in increased
followers for me. This, by itself, is not what's important to me. But what this does is it increases my visibility to more models and more photographers and grows my network. The
model sharing my work also works as a kind of "vetting". Prospective models will often check to see what other models I've shot with before agreeing to shoot with me. If they see
my work being shared and tagged in another model's Instagram, that's a green flag for them. I know this because they've told me so. I just like sharing the photos with the models.
And I want to maintain a good working relationship with each of them. I don't do many trades. When I do, or when I shoot with a friend, I try and provide at least a few (3?)
selects within a week, with a second batch to follow in the week after that. That's the agreement. That's the "compensation". I want them to have it as soon as possible. For models
I've hired, I don't necessarily race to provide them with photos. They've already been compensated. I can take my time to cull and edit. Sometimes it's several weeks, or even
several months later, before I can provide photos (because I work a 40-50-60-hour a week "regular" job, and life happens, and I'm always backlogged on my editing). And that's ok.
They're not expecting to receive photos. They've moved on to the next job, and the next. But they're always appreciative when I send them the finished work, and I'm honored when
they choose to share it. Zimifrein OP • 2y ago This is in line with some of the best advice I got here. Not only that, it's very well put and justified. I appreciate it.
u/culberson avatar culberson • 2y ago It’s not clear from your inquiry whether you mean sending some photos for the model to see how they were taken / used or give them the photos
to use in some way (social media, portfolio, resale, etc.) With TFP it can often be the case, though not always, that the photographer and model have equal rights / agreement to
the photo usage, usually with credit. In paid work it would be more common to have more explicit terms - ie. the model can re-share the work from a commercial social media account,
but not post themselves. It’s considered professional courtesy to show people the work they helped make whether that’s fine art or commercial or what have you (sometimes after an
embargo time period in the case of commercial work). It’s a separate discussion about how the model may use any photos or final work. Ideally that discussion happens up front, but
it sounds like now is as good a time as any to spell it out for the model and yourself in an email. u/pooldayAi avatar u/pooldayAi • Promoted Upload one episode. Judge the output.
Learn More poolday.ai Thumbnail image: Upload one episode. Judge the output. msdesignfoto • 2y ago When the photographer pays the model, the photographer decides the terms and
conditions. Examples: A shoot where you are paid: you provide all the images (or a selection) to the customer. Photos are provided with no watermarks. The amount of photos you
actually provide is decided by yourself, but if the client pays, they should receive a considerable amount of photos. A TPF / trade shoot (free for all): you can provide a few
edited photos to the model with your watermark for advertising purposes. How many photos? You decide, but usually models are happy only with a few different photos, even if you
don't post all of those, they will for themselves (while tagging your page). A shoot where the model is paid: well, coming down the ladder on conditions, you are the one deciding
now everything. How many photos you provide? And even IF you provide them at all. That shoot was a "job" for the model, so he/she may not even receive them. For the sake of the
relationship with the model, I would treat this as a free shoot, with a twist. Maybe a model release form stating you can post the photos where you feel necessary (your website,
facebook fanpage, etc.) This model release is important in free shoots, but when you are the one paying, its more important to make sure your money doesn't go out the bin.
Zimifrein OP • 2y ago Thanks. This makes perfect sense. u/axelomg avatar axelomg • 2y ago Why wouldn’t you? [deleted] • 2y ago My attitude entirely. It costs me nothing, it loses
me nothing, it maintains goodwill. Zimifrein OP • 2y ago If you consider that TFP is done under the assumption that photographer and model have equal rights, I would also assume
that paying for services would mean the person who pays gets rights in their entirety unless stated in contract. But alas these are assumptions. I am more concerned with what is
the "industry standard" if it exists, or something that is more common to do and why. u/axelomg avatar axelomg • 2y ago You are not a robot, you are a real boy :D why would you
excercise your exclusive rights to the the photographs when it benefits you in no way? If you give the pics to the model you will make them happy which is nice. But if being a nice
person is not enough, than if they post it, its free advertisement for you. 4 more replies [deleted] • 2y ago Well, TFP still needs all the releases signed and all. In a paid
shoot, she doesn't get a usage license form and has to sign her likeness off to you. Bandsohard • 2y ago Not necessary. It's a nice thing to do, but you paid them, and you own the
copyright to the photos, you don't owe them anything. I will say that you should give them a look at the photos before you use them or post them though. Even if they're paid,
models get business based on how they are presented to the rest of the world. If you were going to post a photo that they think captures them in the worst possible moment, they
wouldn't be too happy to see you posting it (and by extension less extreme examples). So if you want to maintain that working relationship and build your network it's a good thing
to do, but don't expect them to post them or anything. u/Flutes-Not-Bombs avatar Flutes-Not-Bombs • 2y ago Depends on what you've agreed to at the start. If you feel like you're
being taken advantage of, don't. If you don't feel that way, do whatever you want. DummCunce • 2y ago Unfortunately, it is common practice to provide the photos to a paid model. Is
it fair? Nope. In a TFP situation it makes sense, model provides time and you provide a free shoot with all photos. But when you’re paying (sometimes hundreds per hour) for their
time I do not find it reasonable that they get a free photoshoot AND free photos. Do I do it? Yep. But it is definitely BULLSHIT. DrySpace469 • 2y ago depends what your agreement
is with them. it would also be douchy to expect something that wasn't part of the deal. u/Cobayo avatar Cobayo • 2y ago You're hiring someone. You decide, they choose to follow.
u/Sandr0ck avatar Sandr0ck • 2y ago What is in the contract/release? Money is changing hands. Have a contract stating rights of images. What can be done with them. And if they get
a copy, how many, and what they can use them for. All that needs to be in writing to keep you safe and expectations set. SMTPA • 2y ago If I liked the model and she was interested
I might give her a shot or two for promotional use only. Otherwise, no. [deleted] • 2y ago youre getting a lot of "well technically" answers. i think those people don't understand
that there is a culture around this sort of thing and sharing the photos with your collaborators is so standard that NOT doing it is uniquely rude. all the folks you see on the
internet shooting small editorials for fashion mags, they are paying their hair and makeup artists, stylists, etc, and they are sending them the photos too, and that's how it
works. it's a social agreement. if its a BUSINESS youre shooting ads for, yeah they don't get anything other than what they paid for. which is why people are "yeah technically"-ing
this. but it entirely misses the dynamic of how working collaboratively with other creatives works. 3 more replies New to Reddit? Create your account and connect with a world of
communities. Continue With Phone Number By continuing, you agree to our User Agreement and acknowledge that you understand the Privacy Policy. Related Answers Section Related
Answers Understanding paid photoshoot expectations Tips for finding a photographer Best practices for trade photography Freelance photography gig opportunities Understanding TFP in
photography More posts you may like What are your guys views on TFP vs. paid shoots? r/photography • 7y ago What are your guys views on TFP vs. paid shoots? 11 upvotes · 35
comments u/linkedin avatar linkedin • Promoted Fernando Mendoza gets it: to grow your career, you’ve got to level up. LinkedIn can help. Thumbnail image: Fernando Mendoza gets it:
to grow your career, you’ve got to level up. LinkedIn can help. lnkd.in Learn More What to expect during a paid photoshoot? r/MODELING • 3y ago What to expect during a paid
photoshoot? 9 upvotes · 3 comments What experience did you have leading up to your first paid shoot? r/photography • 8mo ago What experience did you have leading up to your first
paid shoot? 9 upvotes · 18 comments Offering free sessions as practice. Have you done it? r/photography • 6mo ago Offering free sessions as practice. Have you done it? 21 upvotes ·
32 comments What are some best practices at a shoot for a model? r/photography • 5y ago What are some best practices at a shoot for a model? 132 upvotes · 63 comments paid
photographer $10k and got obviously AI edited photos, reasonable to be mad? r/photography • 2mo ago paid photographer $10k and got obviously AI edited photos, reasonable to be mad?
636 upvotes · 452 comments Paid models wanting to use images for O.F. r/photography • 8mo ago Paid models wanting to use images for O.F. 142 upvotes · 162 comments I only took
photos for the set I was paid for. Was that wrong? r/photography • 6mo ago I only took photos for the set I was paid for. Was that wrong? 266 upvotes · 160 comments Am I
overcharging for my first paid photoshoot? r/photography • 3y ago Am I overcharging for my first paid photoshoot? 64 upvotes · 56 comments How many photos to expect from a test
shoot r/MODELING • 2y ago How many photos to expect from a test shoot r/MODELING - How many photos to expect from a test shoot 9 17 upvotes · 28 comments I just got paid for my
very first photography job! Nothing but excellent feedback from the client. I'm so excited and proud of myself 🥰 r/photography • 28d ago I just got paid for my very first
photography job! Nothing but excellent feedback from the client. I'm so excited and proud of myself 🥰 208 upvotes · 30 comments For those with an instagram where you post photos
from shoots...how do you do so many? r/MODELING • 2y ago For those with an instagram where you post photos from shoots...how do you do so many? 11 upvotes · 9 comments How long did
you wait before getting your first paid gig? r/MODELING • 3y ago How long did you wait before getting your first paid gig? 4 upvotes · 6 comments Where to find freelance model
work? r/MODELING • 4y ago Where to find freelance model work? 8 upvotes · 14 comments Where do you post your photo projects? r/photography • 4mo ago Where do you post your photo
projects? 41 upvotes · 49 comments Best companies for photographers to put their images on products? r/photography • 2y ago Best companies for photographers to put their images on
products? 5 comments Client citing themselves as photographer in post instead of the actual photographer r/photography • 2mo ago Client citing themselves as photographer in post
instead of the actual photographer 78 upvotes · 50 comments Baby modelling? r/babies • 1y ago Baby modelling? r/babies - Baby modelling? 3 132 upvotes · 60 comments "If you edit
your photos you're a bad photographer" r/photography • 4mo ago "If you edit your photos you're a bad photographer" 513 upvotes · 417 comments If a local photographer reaches out to
me for a photoshoot, does that usually mean they’ll charge me? r/photography • 6mo ago If a local photographer reaches out to me for a photoshoot, does that usually mean they’ll
charge me? 26 upvotes · 47 comments Finding models & how does a photo-shoot work? r/photography • 2y ago Finding models & how does a photo-shoot work? 37 upvotes · 37 comments
Those who shoot portraits of people (NOTE: NOT weddings!) or products for money, how did you started? r/photography • 9mo ago Those who shoot portraits of people (NOTE: NOT
weddings!) or products for money, how did you started? 9 upvotes · 25 comments Any full time models here? What is full time model pay like? Is it enough for post inflation America?
r/MODELING • 4y ago Any full time models here? What is full time model pay like? Is it enough for post inflation America? 21 upvotes · 7 comments Photographers what are some of the
best tips you give your clients to prepare for a photoshoot? r/photography • 1y ago Photographers what are some of the best tips you give your clients to prepare for a photoshoot?
1 upvote · 6 comments Client asking for ALL photos r/photography • 5mo ago Client asking for ALL photos 201 upvotes · 253 comments View Post in Português (Brasil) Русский 日本語 繁體中文
Tiếng Việt See more Community Info Section r/photography Join Photography /r/photography is a place to politely discuss the tools, technique, art and culture of photography and to
post topics that would be of interest to other photographers. Show more Public Top Posts Reddit reReddit: Top posts of May 17, 2024 Reddit reReddit: Top posts of May 2024 Reddit
reReddit: Top posts of 2024 Reddit Rules Privacy Policy User Agreement Your Privacy Choices Accessibility Reddit, Inc. © 2026. All rights reserved. Collapse Navigation Skip to main
content How do you get clients? : r/RealEstatePhotography r/RealEstatePhotography Search in r/RealEstatePhotography Get App Log In Expand user menu Skip to NavigationSkip to Right
Sidebar Back Go to RealEstatePhotography r/RealEstatePhotography • 2d ago cluelessgirl666 How do you get clients? Hey everyone, I have got some portfolio, I already did a big job,
but getting clients it has been hard , I even went to agencies face to face to give my card, send a follow up email with base prices and I hear nothing back, between emails, face
to face etc ... 100 something agencies ... they look interested but them nothing, only one and the guy said I was expensive, and had guys doing it for half under the table. How did
you get clients, and how do you justify the prices? For reference , I'm average price (by the books), but there is way lower prices around here. Upvote 4 Downvote 17 Go to comments
Share u/honeybook avatar honeybook • Promoted Save 25% on HoneyBook for a limited time and discover the all-in-one platform trusted by small businesses. Sign Up honeybook.com
Thumbnail image: Save 25% on HoneyBook for a limited time and discover the all-in-one platform trusted by small businesses. Join the conversation Sort by: New (Default) Search
Comments Expand comment search Comments Section u/Equivalent_Bed_1113 avatar Equivalent_Bed_1113 • 23h ago Real estate is always going to have someone “doing it for half under the
table,” so you’re not going to win by being the cheapest. The people you’ve been approaching (big agencies) are often the most price‑sensitive and already locked into habits. I’d
shift to: hand‑picking 20-30 individual agents whose listings actually match the quality you want, then sending each one a short email with 2-3 of your best before/afters and one
clear offer like, “I’ll shoot your next listing at my standard rate but include X (twilight, social reel, fast turnaround). If it doesn’t help the listing, we don’t have to work
together again.” The ones who care about service, consistency and extras will respond; the ones comparing you to their cousin with an iPhone were never your clients anyway.
cluelessgirl666 OP • 21h ago I dont know how you are but thank you! that's very good advice! I'm on it! u/Public-Trifle-6265 avatar Public-Trifle-6265 • 1d ago When the only thing
separating you from the next photographer is price, you've already lost. The agents comparing you to an iMovie guy aren't going to be great clients anyway, they're looking for the
cheapest option, not the best result. The ones worth having usually start asking about video, social content, or a full package at some point. What shifted things for me was adding
video to my offer in a way that didn't require me to do more at the shoot. I started using frametoflow.com to handle the social clip side, they take the listing photos I already
shot and produce polished videos from them. Suddenly my packages looked more complete and I stopped getting compared to the $250 guy entirely, because we weren't offering the same
thing anymore. u/is2o avatar is2o • 1d ago Is this whole post a set up u/Suitable-Material898 avatar Suitable-Material898 • 2d ago By stealing them from other photographers. That's
just the reality of our niche. cluelessgirl666 OP • 2d ago Not even that I can do ... xD Goldbeacon • 2d ago You haven’t found the bad ones yet then 2 more replies u/AxonbyAppLovin
avatar u/AxonbyAppLovin • Promoted Profitable advertising made simple Profitable advertising made simple Profitable advertising made simple Profitable advertising made simple
Profitable advertising made simple Profitable advertising made simple Profitable advertising made simple axon.ai Learn More mentiondesk • 2d ago Getting clients is definitely
tough, especially when it feels like everyone wants to undercut on price. What helped me was not only sharing my portfolio but also highlighting specific results and unique skills
I bring to the table. Sometimes case studies or short testimonials can help show your value in ways simple pricing sheets can't. Also, it made a huge difference when I started
finding spaces where potential clients were already talking about the services I offer and joining those discussions in a genuine way. If you want to catch those conversations
early, something like ParseStream can track keywords and alert you when someone asks for recommendations or is looking for help. That way, you can join the right conversations
instead of cold emailing and hoping for a reply. u/Agreeable-Meeting990 avatar Agreeable-Meeting990 • 1d ago I ran into the same “you’re too expensive, I know a guy who’ll do it
for half” wall. What helped me was leaning hard into outcomes, not just pretty photos. I started showing agents side‑by‑side listings: same type of property, mine vs older photos,
with concrete stuff like faster offers or more showings. That framed my price as a tool to move properties, not a cost to shave down. I also stopped chasing every agent and focused
on 10–20 who were clearly active and listing often. I’d send one custom example tied to their style, not a generic deck. For finding people already asking for help, I tried Google
Alerts and ParseStream, and then Pulse for Reddit stuck for me because it caught real “need photographer / listing looks bad” threads where I could jump in with specific advice
instead of cold pitching. cluelessgirl666 OP • 2d ago Thank you, thats solid advice! u/ollyconscious avatar ollyconscious • 2d ago 100 outreach attempts is not that many when most
replies come on touch 3 or 4. The issue is consistency, not your pitch or your prices. What changed it for me was having a system that kept following up automatically. Replies
started showing up in places I'd already written off. cluelessgirl666 OP • 2d ago How do you do that? How do you follow up? Call, email ? face to face again? u/ollyconscious avatar
ollyconscious • 2d ago Email mainly. I put together a simple system that sends follow ups automatically over a few weeks, personalised enough to not feel automated but I never have
to think about it manually. Keeps me in front of people consistently without the grind. Feel free to message me and I'll share the details 1 more reply New to Reddit? Create your
account and connect with a world of communities. Continue With Phone Number By continuing, you agree to our User Agreement and acknowledge that you understand the Privacy Policy.
Related Answers Section Related Answers Top tips for staging homes for photography To successfully stage a home for photography, prioritize decluttering, depersonalization,
strategic lighting, and consider professional or virtual staging, but always ensure transparency regarding virtual elements. Declutter and Depersonalize Remove Clutter: Clear all
unnecessary items to make spaces appear larger and more inviting. "The clutter makes me roll my eyes. Come on." Depersonalize: Take down family photos, unique decor, and anything
that identifies the current occupants. "Remove all personal pictures( family, pets)." Maximize Storage Appearance: Make closets and pantries look half-empty to suggest ample
storage. "And make your closets and pantry look like they are half empty so it doesn't look like the house doesn't have enough storage." Lighting and Arrangement Ensure Proper
Lighting: Turn on all lights, open curtains and blinds to maximize natural light, and ensure all bulbs in a room have the same color temperature. "All lights on. All
curtains/blinds open." Strategic Furniture Placement: Arrange furniture to enhance the sense of space and flow, avoiding overly large centerpieces that can make rooms feel smaller.
"Stop putting tall flower arrangements etc in the middle of the table. It makes the room look smaller and my dining room shot looks like a pic of your centerpiece instead of the
room" Hotel Room Aesthetic: Aim for a clean, minimalist look similar to a hotel room, with only essential and decorative items displayed. "I tell them to think of a hotel room."
Staging Methods and Considerations Professional Staging Benefits: Professional staging can significantly increase buyer interest and lead to faster sales, especially for vacant
homes. "Real staging sold my home in 30 days when the average days on market was over 100." Virtual Staging as an Alternative: Virtual staging can be a cost-effective way to
showcase a home's potential, but it should be realistic and disclosed to avoid misleading buyers. "If the staging looks fake, it absolutely hurts you." Transparency with Virtual
Staging: If using virtual staging, always display both the original and virtually staged photos, and clearly label any virtual enhancements. "I think it's good to show BOTH." Are
you interested in learning more about the ethical considerations of virtual staging? Related Media response_carousel_media_0 response_carousel_media_1 response_carousel_media_2
response_carousel_media_3 response_carousel_media_4 response_carousel_media_5 Related images from across Reddit Home Staging & Real Estate Communities RealEstatePhotography 15K
weekly visitors Join How real estate is sold and marketed has changed a lot in the last two decades. What used to be a short sentence full of abbreviations in the local classifieds
and a one-page flyer in a plastic box outside the house is now a full suite of marketing materials. This community is for creators of that media to come together and discuss the
industry, the craft, the techniques, the gear, and otherwise learn from each other. A rising tide lifts all ships! homeowners 938K weekly visitors Join The best place to talk about
your place. RealEstateAdvice 181K weekly visitors Join This community is your go-to place for all things real estate. Whether you're buying your first home, thinking about getting
