Skip to main content Whats the best way YOU have found at getting clients? : r/photography r/photography Search in r/photography Get App Log In Expand user menu Skip to
NavigationSkip to Right Sidebar Back Go to photography r/photography • 2y ago Bubbly-Guidance1138 Whats the best way YOU have found at getting clients? Business Theres lots of talk
about good ways to find clients, social media, friends, etc, however it's all vary vague. I want to hear about what other photographers have done that worked for them. Imagine
you're writing a little youtube video transcript about what works for you and what you wish you would've done when you had just been starting out. ME: I'm personally trying to get
into car photography, I've gotten 2 paid clients through facebook posts in car groupchats however after those 2 I haven't gotten anything else, not even messages inquiring about
prices. I never qoute my prices on my ads, Ill copt and paste one of them here... "Hi everyone, the GSXR among the photos is mine. I’m actually already in the group but decided to
make a separate account for my photography and videography side of things, I threw some examples of my work in here but you can also check out my profile to see some videos I’ve
done. If you’re wondering it’s all done with an IPhone, if you’re looking to get similar pictures or videos done send me a message and we can work something out, I’m still new at
this so not charging anything crazy for shoots" that's the only one I posted that got me clients, it was my first one. That being said I actually decided to just use my DSLR for
photos and Iphone for videos. Archived post. New comments cannot be posted and votes cannot be cast. Upvote 2 Downvote 23 Go to comments Share u/OpenAI avatar OpenAI • Promoted
Ready to move from mockup to code? Start now with Codex, available with ChatGPT. Sign Up chatgpt.com Thumbnail image: Ready to move from mockup to code? Start now with Codex,
available with ChatGPT. Sort by: Best Search Comments Expand comment search Comments Section u/Sorry-Inevitable-407 avatar Sorry-Inevitable-407 • 2y ago • Edited 2y ago
Word-of-mouth is still by far the best method. Second best is probably an extremely well SEO optimized website along with consistenly updated social platforms. Seba-_ • 2y ago Okay
awesome thanks! I’ll keep that in mind. [deleted] • 2y ago Beatsbythebong • 2y ago First, I'd evaluate the competition, then narrow your niche to something specific that very few
people are shooting. Then, set up your social media around that specific niche and create a website with a memorable name in that niche. After that, I'd get a stack of business
cards that are designed in line with your niche. You're going to want to build a good portfolio with nice shots. The easiest way to do this is to go to car meets and take hella
photos of cars in your niche. To gain traction, you're going to have to do some wild creative shoots that other people aren't doing to pique interest. Documenting your journey like
a journal can also be useful to gain interest. Once your portfolio is sharp, talk to people, join groups, and hand out cards to potential clients only in your niche. Basically you
want to present yourself As the best in a certain niche with a certain style. Also posting photos you've taken in local groups can lead to clients For your sales pitch, you can
leverage "sale deals" or group discounts to bring in customers. Have a set pricing guide for your photos but allow for bargaining flexability, for instance if you want 100$ for a
shoot, maybe advertise 125 or 150, then if a person is looking for "the cheap" throw out 100$ as an option but with less final photos. Seba-_ • 2y ago Wow, thank you for all that
information, I have a document business plan in making and I’m going to takes pieces from this and put it in there, thank you so much! Beatsbythebong • 2y ago It takes a while to
get up and running, and word of mouth and good marketing takes time, but being the "the guy" in your niche goes a long way to seperate yourself from an incredibly saturated market,
as "car photographers" are prettymuch a dime a dozen. u/AxonbyAppLovin avatar u/AxonbyAppLovin • Promoted Profitable advertising made simple Profitable advertising made simple
Profitable advertising made simple Profitable advertising made simple Profitable advertising made simple Profitable advertising made simple Profitable advertising made simple
axon.ai Learn More ll1l2l1l2lll • 2y ago 10 year professional photographer here. I think word of mouth is the best. You can work for agencies, or have agents/reps to represent you.
However, I think if you're just doing this on your own and "how do I find myself clients", word of mouth is the best. I started by doing really cheap if not free work for a long
time, just to build up my portfolio. In photography it's very black and white. You either have it, or you don't. They either like it, or they don't. You're either great to work
with, or people dislike you. No matter how much prospecting, marketing, ads, free shoots you do - if your work isn't decent, you will not find consistency in work and clients. Also
specializing in specific type will help spread the word faster - events, portraits, dogs, cars, GSX-R's, watches, whatever it is... Finding a smaller niche will help you spread the
word more quickly. If shooting motorcycles, putting photos of your bikes across multiple forums, will yield better results than walking to every business on your block and giving
them a portfolio of a hodgepodge worth of images. u/saricher avatar saricher • 2y ago I think the answer depends on who is your client. Do you know your demographic? There is
proactive marketing and reactive marketing. An example of reactive marketing is someone looking for a wedding photographer. They already KNOW they want a wedding photographer so
they are on Google, or Wedding Wire, and searching hashtags (usually their venue) on Instagram. But proactive marketing is when you want someone to see your offering and thinking,
"I hadn't thought about that but yeah, that's something I want." You are addressing a problem with a solution - "You've invested top dollar to make your ride the best - now how are
you going to show it off? I have the photo/video package for you!" Where are these people? Facebook/IG? At car shows? Maybe it's a good idea to have a booth at a car show. Seba-_ •
2y ago Wow that’s very helpful, I think I want to hit both If possible, I’d like to pop up online when people look for car photographers in my area, or even pop up in conversation
from WOM, however also I think the 2 clients I got were from proactive marketing, however I didn’t word it how you did which was very catching [deleted] • 2y ago Away-Ad2439 • 2y
ago Word of mouth for sure Maybe in your situation you can try to approach those fancy car wrapping places? Maybe you can see if they have a large following on social media and
collaborate with them and then when they post about you then you can get some clients I have done only 2 collabs and I always found a few clients through them especially since I
was just starting and needed a portfolio so you can also try it u/honeybook avatar u/honeybook • Promoted Upgrade to HoneyBook - now 25% off! Sign Up honeybook.com Thumbnail image:
Upgrade to HoneyBook - now 25% off! GoodEyePhoto • 2y ago The best way to find new clients is primarily making it easy for them to find and contact YOU. Make a website and get it
listed officially on google as a local listing. Prominently display your phone number / contact form Answer your phone / email / text quickly. If you can manage the last two then
congratulations, you’re ahead of 90% of other local business owners. Beyond this, cultivate an experience with clients the inspire them to leave you a positive review on google,
yelp, etc. Try to deliver such amazing results/experience that they’ll rave to their friends on your behalf without asking. If you have to ask, you’ll never get the review/referral
you really want/need. If you’re into a specific niche like the OP, embedding yourself into communities where those people are is a no brainer. Cold calling/emailing is the worst,
almost never works. You need to get to people when they have a need. No discount or even freebie will convert someone that doesn’t have an active need. Advertising still works,
especially for niche stuff. But unless you want to spend $1,000 or more per month, you’ll likely conclude it “doesn’t work.” Of course you have to have a solid page/funnel to help
bring turn those warm leads into conversions. Lots of ways to BE found by clients, not as many ways to find clients. u/Needs_Supervision123 avatar Needs_Supervision123 • 2y ago
Plan some time off, They come out of the wood work esp if you book a flight. u/Zeluxs avatar Zeluxs • 1y ago XD aarondigruccio • 2y ago Word-of mouth. Foster meaningful, lasting,
personal relationships. Handshakes, eye contact, honesty. Make people feel like you’ve got them taken care of. It’s all I’ve found to work. WLFGHST • 2y ago Emailing the customer.
LeicaM6guy • 2y ago Word of mouth and being proactive. If I have a photo I believe will sell, I'll reach out to various editors and see if they're interested. Do that enough, and
produce enough quality imagery, and you'll be remembered as a reliable shooter in a given area. officialjnoel • 10mo ago Add your service to justquicktools.com/find-photographers
It's free and organized so people can find you more easily Enamky • 9mo ago New to Reddit? Create your account and connect with a world of communities. Continue With Phone Number
By continuing, you agree to our User Agreement and acknowledge that you understand the Privacy Policy. Related Answers Section Related Answers Best ways for photographers to get
clients Best lenses for portrait photography Tips for capturing stunning landscapes How to improve low-light photography skills Essential gear for travel photographers More posts
you may like How do I acquire more high end clients? r/photography • 1y ago How do I acquire more high end clients? 9 upvotes · 20 comments u/BigFig-Mattress avatar BigFig-Mattress
• Promoted Big Fig is a mattress built specifically for bigger bodies, with stronger support that actually holds up. Thumbnail image: Big Fig is a mattress built specifically for
bigger bodies, with stronger support that actually holds up. bigfigmattress.com Shop Now How to actually find constant clients? r/photography • 2y ago How to actually find constant
clients? 53 upvotes · 28 comments tell me about the worst client you've ever had r/photography • 6mo ago tell me about the worst client you've ever had 5 upvotes · 16 comments How
to find and hire a good photographer? r/photography • 1y ago How to find and hire a good photographer? 1 upvote · 15 comments Struggling to find clients as a freelance
photographer... any ideas ? r/photography • 4y ago Struggling to find clients as a freelance photographer... any ideas ? 56 upvotes · 46 comments How do you get clients? r/SMMA •
13d ago How do you get clients? 23 upvotes · 40 comments What site do you use to host your portfolio to send to clients? It's been a few years for me. r/photography • 2y ago What
site do you use to host your portfolio to send to clients? It's been a few years for me. 17 upvotes · 37 comments Have you had any luck with dating apps? What's your advice? r/infj
• 2y ago Have you had any luck with dating apps? What's your advice? 14 upvotes · 32 comments How do you guys get more customers for your photography business ? r/photography • 1y
ago How do you guys get more customers for your photography business ? 3 upvotes · 24 comments Is my client messing with me? r/photography • 1mo ago Is my client messing with me?
56 upvotes · 68 comments Struggling to get clients as a freelance photographer r/photography • 2y ago Struggling to get clients as a freelance photographer 34 upvotes · 30 comments
How to acquire clients for my photography business? r/smallbusiness • 4y ago How to acquire clients for my photography business? 2 upvotes · 13 comments How did you get your first
clients in commercial photography? r/photography • 1y ago How did you get your first clients in commercial photography? 8 upvotes · 14 comments How to get booked?? r/photography •
9mo ago How to get booked?? 61 comments How can I combat clients being cheapskates? r/photography • 2y ago How can I combat clients being cheapskates? 106 upvotes · 88 comments
Portrait Photographers, what's your process for letting clients choose which photos they want? r/photography • 9mo ago Portrait Photographers, what's your process for letting
clients choose which photos they want? 1 upvote · 28 comments How do you manage clients and share photos with them? r/photography • 2y ago How do you manage clients and share
photos with them? 11 comments Seeking Clients? How are you doing it? r/interiordesigner • 3mo ago Seeking Clients? How are you doing it? 8 upvotes · 21 comments What's the worst
suggestions someone has said you should do on this website? r/AskWomenNoCensor • 2y ago What's the worst suggestions someone has said you should do on this website? 11 upvotes · 27
comments How did you start finding clients? r/photography • 3y ago How did you start finding clients? 10 upvotes · 14 comments How to get clients? r/petsitting • 1mo ago How to get
clients? 13 upvotes · 40 comments How are you finding clients right now? r/agency • 7mo ago How are you finding clients right now? 99 upvotes · 139 comments Tips for getting
clients as a new photographer? r/photography • 10y ago Tips for getting clients as a new photographer? 33 upvotes · 23 comments What website do you use to share photos with Client?
r/photography • 2y ago What website do you use to share photos with Client? 18 upvotes · 80 comments Offering prints for clients? r/photography • 12y ago Offering prints for
clients? 4 upvotes · 12 comments View Post in Português (Brasil) Tiếng Việt 日本語 简体中文 Français See more Community Info Section r/photography Join Photography /r/photography is a
place to politely discuss the tools, technique, art and culture of photography and to post topics that would be of interest to other photographers. Show more Public Top Posts
Reddit reReddit: Top posts of August 19, 2024 Reddit reReddit: Top posts of August 2024 Reddit reReddit: Top posts of 2024 Reddit Rules Privacy Policy User Agreement Your Privacy
Choices Accessibility Reddit, Inc. © 2026. All rights reserved. Collapse Navigation Skip to main content How do people get clients for photography? : r/AskPhotography
r/AskPhotography Search in r/AskPhotography Get App Log In Expand user menu Skip to NavigationSkip to Right Sidebar Back Go to AskPhotography r/AskPhotography • 2mo ago
ice_bearbear How do people get clients for photography? Business/Pricing Hello I’m a senior in high school and I’ve been doing photography for about 6 years so I can take some
pretty good photos and over the last 6 months or so I’ve been working on getting paid shoots like weddings engagements and a bit of real estate. My favorite shoots I’ve done have
been real estate but I’m having a lot of trouble finding work for any genre of photography. I’ve probably done about 6-8 shoots over the past 6 months all low paying. I already use
pixieset to deliver to clients and I have an instagram with like 150 followers but I’ve gotten all my clients off Facebook marketplace or Craigslist. Does anyone know of better
ways to get clients? I really love photography and if I could I would spend all my time working on it but I just can’t find any work I’ve even started offering free photos to
people on Airbnb just to build portfolio and connections but I still can’t get much. If anyone wants to see my portfolio I can put a link in I kinda need to update it as a lot of
my recent work isn’t in there. Any tips on getting a photography business going would be greatly appreciated but just fyi I don’t really have any more money to invest I’ve already
put $500+ into it just buying more specific gear that I don’t really use in my personal photography. Sorry this is really long but I’m just running out of options and I really need
some advice thank you! Upvote 1 Downvote 13 Go to comments Share u/OpenAI avatar OpenAI • Promoted Edit photos and remove background people or objects with ChatGPT. Sign Up
chatgpt.com Thumbnail image: Edit photos and remove background people or objects with ChatGPT. Join the conversation Sort by: Best Search Comments Expand comment search Comments
Section u/mccannge avatar mccannge • 2mo ago Why don’t you try doing some action sports photography. Since you are still a student you can really build relationships with people
who have elementary age kids and work up from there. Upvote 2 Downvote Reply Award Share u/ice_bearbear avatar ice_bearbear OP • 2mo ago I’ve done a bit but I really don’t like it,
I prefer like anything over sports photography I know some people love it but it’s really just not my thing Upvote 2 Downvote Reply Award Share ComfortableAddress11 • 2mo ago
Profile Badge for the Achievement Top 1% Commenter Top 1% Commenter Relationships, word of mouth, being recommended, word of town, retaining offers/projects. Doing a couple of paid
work won’t make you known in town as a good business person (satisfying work, delivered on time, reliable). Also marketing, especially social media is something you need to look
into and also do. Upvote 2 Downvote Reply Award Share u/WorldDesperate7632 avatar WorldDesperate7632 • 2mo ago I am looking for someone that can take a few photos inside a medical
clinic a website. I would be interested in seeing some of your work if you think you would be interested in this small job. Upvote 1 Downvote Reply Award Share u/ice_bearbear
avatar ice_bearbear OP • 2mo ago Sure here’s one of my recent shoots Real Estate Apartment Shoot Upvote 1 Downvote Reply Award Share u/WorldDesperate7632 avatar WorldDesperate7632
• 2mo ago What city / state are you located in? Upvote 1 Downvote Reply Award Share 1 more reply [deleted] • 2mo ago New to Reddit? Create your account and connect with a world of
communities. Continue With Phone Number By continuing, you agree to our User Agreement and acknowledge that you understand the Privacy Policy. Related Answers Section Related
Answers Best lenses for portrait photography Choosing the best lens for portrait photography depends on your camera system, desired aesthetic, and budget, with Redditors frequently
recommending 85mm, 50mm, and 70-200mm f/2.8 lenses for their versatility and ability to produce flattering results. Popular Focal Lengths for Portraits 85mm lenses are widely
considered ideal for traditional portraits due to their flattering compression and ability to create beautiful background blur. "85mm to me is the ideal portrait length." 50mm
lenses are praised for their versatility, offering a natural perspective that closely matches human vision and performing well for both headshots and wider environmental portraits.
"My favorite portrait length for most of my work, but I like shooting a lot looser… full body, or horizontal frame waist up." 70-200mm f/2.8 zoom lenses are a highly recommended
workhorse, providing excellent versatility for various portrait distances and offering impressive background separation. "To be honest, and I know it is heavy: the 70-200mm f/2.8
with stabilizing. Versatile, great bokeh, great background separation. Absolutely stunning." Key Considerations for Lens Selection Aperture Size (f-stop): A wide aperture (e.g.,
f/1.2, f/1.4, f/1.8, f/2.8) is crucial for achieving the sought-after bokeh effect, blurring the background to make the subject stand out. "If you want bokeh, you'll need the
aperture of f1.4 / 1.8." Prime vs. Zoom Lenses: Prime lenses (fixed focal length) often offer superior image quality and wider apertures at a lower cost, while zoom lenses provide
flexibility in framing without changing lenses. "Prime with low aperture. 35mm or 50mm usually, I prefer shorter focal lengths" Sensor Size: The camera's sensor size impacts the
effective focal length and depth of field. "To talk about a focal length without mentioning the sensor size is misleading." Advanced and Specialty Lenses 105mm and 135mm lenses are
also popular choices for portraits, especially for tighter headshots, offering distinct compression and bokeh characteristics. "85mm, 105mm, 135mm and 200mm would be most used
portrait lens." Sigma and Viltrox produce well-regarded and often more affordable prime lenses that deliver excellent image quality for portraiture. "The Sigma 56mm f/1.4 is a
great portrait lens." Are you looking for lens recommendations for a specific camera brand or type? See Answer Tips for shooting in low light conditions How to choose the right
camera for beginners Essential gear for landscape photography Creative techniques for macro photography More posts you may like How do freelancers get their initial clients?
r/lebanon • 4mo ago How do freelancers get their initial clients? 8 upvotes · 13 comments How do people actually move abroad for work? r/gurgaon • 2mo ago How do people actually
move abroad for work? 1 upvote u/base44_app avatar base44_app • Promoted Your idea, your app. Type what you want and see it working in minutes. Build now with Base44. Thumbnail
image: Your idea, your app. Type what you want and see it working in minutes. Build now with Base44. base44.com Sign Up How do you do shoegaze photography? r/shoegaze • 4mo ago How
do you do shoegaze photography? 8 upvotes · 9 comments How are people doing it? r/complainaboutanything • 3mo ago How are people doing it? 3 upvotes · 8 comments Data Storage as a
freelancer - how do you do it? Any recommendations or lessons you can pass on? r/editors • 3mo ago Data Storage as a freelancer - how do you do it? Any recommendations or lessons
you can pass on? 6 upvotes · 25 comments Does anyone have any ideas of how I can be charitable with my photography services? r/AskPhotography • 2mo ago Does anyone have any ideas
of how I can be charitable with my photography services? 33 upvotes · 45 comments Photographers - give me your best advice from experience? r/AskPhotography • 3mo ago Photographers
- give me your best advice from experience? 55 upvotes · 208 comments Anybody here do professional photography as a side-gig? r/AskPhotography • 4mo ago Anybody here do
professional photography as a side-gig? 9 upvotes · 40 comments People that started their photography business in the last year or so and is so far doing well, how did you do it,
what are you photographing and what is your gear? r/AskPhotography • 6mo ago People that started their photography business in the last year or so and is so far doing well, how did
you do it, what are you photographing and what is your gear? 13 upvotes · 19 comments Professional photographers: how do you make a living? r/AskPhotography • 12d ago Professional
photographers: how do you make a living? 62 upvotes · 54 comments Does anyone else struggle to get into photography when you’re with other people? r/AskPhotography • 3mo ago Does
anyone else struggle to get into photography when you’re with other people? 35 upvotes · 17 comments Do people really get paid for engineering prompts? r/PromptEngineering • 3mo
ago Do people really get paid for engineering prompts? 8 upvotes · 9 comments How are the dolls that don’t work making money??? r/BlackTransPeople • 4mo ago How are the dolls that
don’t work making money??? 10 upvotes · 6 comments Tips for beginner photographers? r/AskPhotography • 1mo ago Tips for beginner photographers? r/AskPhotography - Tips for beginner
photographers? 74 upvotes · 15 comments How to start my photography journey? r/AskPhotography • 2mo ago How to start my photography journey? r/AskPhotography - How to start my
photography journey? 3 8 upvotes · 12 comments How do you all save on stuff as students? r/growmybusiness • 4mo ago How do you all save on stuff as students? 3 upvotes · 2 comments
How do you find jobs in this market? r/sveltejs • 3mo ago How do you find jobs in this market? 65 upvotes · 23 comments How do you actually find the right person to work
with?(Founders experience wanted) r/buildinpublic • 4mo ago How do you actually find the right person to work with?(Founders experience wanted) 1 upvote · 16 comments How do you
justify your presence as a photographer? r/AskPhotography • 3mo ago How do you justify your presence as a photographer? r/AskPhotography - How do you justify your presence as a
photographer? 2.5K upvotes · 164 comments How do you find clients for freelancing as a graphic designer? r/Freelancers • 3mo ago How do you find clients for freelancing as a
graphic designer? 3 upvotes · 25 comments Do photographers have rights to sell photos I hire them to take? r/AskPhotography • 10mo ago Do photographers have rights to sell photos I
hire them to take? 39 upvotes · 61 comments Client requested ownership of photos. I’m confused. What would you do? r/AskPhotography • 9mo ago Client requested ownership of photos.
I’m confused. What would you do? 67 upvotes · 68 comments As a semi experienced (2 years) composer , how do I find work and is it possible to get paid a lot from doing this?
r/IndieDev • 2mo ago As a semi experienced (2 years) composer , how do I find work and is it possible to get paid a lot from doing this? 8 comments Beginner photographer here, any
tips for starting a photography gig? r/AskPhotography • 1mo ago Beginner photographer here, any tips for starting a photography gig? r/AskPhotography - Beginner photographer here,
any tips for starting a photography gig? 6 133 upvotes · 81 comments What is your opinion on editing photos so they don't really look like what you shot? r/AskPhotography • 4mo ago
What is your opinion on editing photos so they don't really look like what you shot? 25 upvotes · 60 comments View Post in Português (Brasil) Français हिन्दी See more Community
Info Section r/AskPhotography Join Photography community ready to help. Whether you're a seasoned professional or just starting out, this subreddit is the perfect place to ask
questions, seek advice, and engage in discussions about all things photography. We're here to foster a supportive and knowledgeable community that shares a passion for capturing
the world through the lens. If you're new to photography or have a burning question, don't hesitate to make a post! Our community is filled with experienced photographers who are
eager to help. Show more Public Reddit Rules Privacy Policy User Agreement Your Privacy Choices Accessibility Reddit, Inc. © 2026. All rights reserved. Collapse Navigation Skip to
main content What made the biggest impact on client experience and bookings? : r/photography r/photography Search in r/photography Get App Log In Expand user menu Skip to
NavigationSkip to Right Sidebar Back Go to photography r/photography • 1y ago Either_Weakness_3577 What made the biggest impact on client experience and bookings? Business I’m
doing some research to see what truly makes the difference between the everyday photographer and the higher end photographer you book for the complete experience. What did you do
that made things click for clients? So that they trusted you and booked with you. Whether it was a part of your marketing or messaging that changed and made a difference… changing
your pricing model… enhancing something about the consultation process… implementing something new like a photoshoot guide, a client questionnaire? What has helped you succeed as a
luxury service even when times are tough? I’d love to know your niche/target audience, and what you feel that you did that made the biggest positive impact on your business. We all
know that people of all skills and styles are all over the range of high to low investment photography… because if you do the business right, it’s becomes about more than your art
but the whole experience. Thanks for contributing ☺️ Archived post. New comments cannot be posted and votes cannot be cast. Upvote 4 Downvote 19 Go to comments Share u/Zola avatar
Zola • Promoted These tried, true, and top of-the-crop registry picks prove their staying power. Find all your favorites at Zola.com. These tried, true, and top of-the-crop
registry picks prove their staying power. Find all your favorites at Zola.com. These tried, true, and top of-the-crop registry picks prove their staying power. Find all your
favorites at Zola.com. These tried, true, and top of-the-crop registry picks prove their staying power. Find all your favorites at Zola.com. welcome.zola.com Sign Up Sort by: Best
Search Comments Expand comment search Comments Section u/stu-2-u avatar stu-2-u • 1y ago I am transitioning to just selling physical products: wall art, albums, and various printed
products. They will receive a social media sized copy with each purchase. Will install wall art for local clients. Next step is making frames myself. u/gotthelowdown avatar
gotthelowdown • 1y ago • Edited 1y ago Sharing some stuff. Website Some of these things may sound silly and obvious, but drive clients crazy when looking at photographers'
websites. Email address is easy to find. Clients don't want to hunt around your website for it. They don't want to fill out a contact form with 50 fields. Make your location clear.
The client should see right away what city or state you're in. They don't want to email you and you reply you're 100 miles away. Logos of prominent brands, companies and clients
you've worked for. Take design cues from luxury brands and how their websites look. Post-Shoot Customer Support Screencast video that shows the client how to properly download
their images. So many clients just take screenshots of the gallery, upload to socials, then complain to the photographer about crappy image quality 🤦‍♂️ Personal Brand Photography
Bundle in the cost of a hair and makeup artist (MUA), wardrobe stylist and studio rental. Especially for creatives who are hesitant to increase their prices, adding people to the
team makes it a lot easier to justify higher prices. Combining talents also makes the photos look better, so it's win-win for the client and the photographer. Style guide PDF with
outfit tips. Some photographers will even do a style consultation. Like over a Zoom call, the client can show the photographer their closet and together pick outfits. Next level is
using a wardrobe app like Whering, Indyx or Acloset. "Marketing library" approach to shooting. The goal is to build a library of a variety of photos (and videos as that's becoming
more important) that the client can reuse over the long term. Use on their website, in their social media posts, in ads, in paper flyers and other marketing collateral. A cheesy
example are pictures where the client is looking and/or pointing in different directions at empty space. In the space they're pointing at, the client could later put text, pictures
or other graphics. For things like YouTube thumbnail images, social media posts and ads. The could also have different expressions: Excited - Good news. Scared - Bad news. Angry -
Rant posts. Shocked - Breaking news. Curious/thinking - Question and discussion posts. Here's an example of a YouTuber in Las Vegas who uses those kinds of photos in his video
thumbnail images: https://www.youtube.com/@JacobslifeinVegas/videos Going further, shoot those pointing pictures of the client wearing different outfits. So the images don't
fatigue from overuse too fast. Event Photography Projecting images onto a TV or projection screen. Attendees love seeing themselves up on a big screen. Big boost to the event
experience, and can generate a lot of new clients for the photographer. Photo booth/portrait station. Provide nice digital images for attendees to post on socials. Going further,
giving them photo prints. Same-day sneak peek, highlight video reel and other content that the client can post on socials immediately while the event is still happening. Free photo
print in a frame for the client's desk. A photo print also becomes a great icebreaker and free word-of-mouth advertising for the photographer. A visitor asks the client about the
picture, and the client talks about you. Hope this helps. u/Either_Weakness_3577 avatar Either_Weakness_3577 OP • 1y ago Thanks for your input! I really appreciate your thoughtful
response. Your silly and obvious stuff isn’t silly and obvious for everyone, thankfully I’ve got those things taken care of but someone else might not. I appreciate your take on
consultation, I think that’s where I need to focus is ensuring my client experience reflects my work. It’s fairly basic up until this point because I was always part time. So doing
the wardrobe consultations is important because it is a part of your work. How often when we start out and really develop our style, have clients show up in an outfit/matching
wardrobe that doesn’t fit your style and therefore doesn’t achieve your desired look. I am working on a style guide but I like the idea of doing a zoom/FaceTime
closet-consultation. So I’ll be focusing on portraits I think, couples and individuals, and am simplifying my pricing model to three options. But I’m wondering for my individual
clients who may be graduates, personal brand portraits, fashion influencers, etc., offering a fourth pricing option that is an all inclusive bundle with an HMUA, studio rental,
etc. I don’t feel like this would be too much and really speaks to the client experience I want to provide while also knowing not every client has this need. What are your thoughts
on that? Also, do you contract with a few professionals you work with exclusively or have a group of “preferred vendors” you choose from and book based on availability for these
shoots. I could see there being a few avenues to make this cost effective. u/gotthelowdown avatar gotthelowdown • 1y ago • Edited 1y ago You're welcome! 😎👍 So I’ll be focusing on
portraits I think, couples and individuals, and am simplifying my pricing model to three options. But I’m wondering for my individual clients who may be graduates, personal brand
portraits, fashion influencers, etc., offering a fourth pricing option that is an all inclusive bundle with an HMUA, studio rental, etc. I don’t feel like this would be too much
and really speaks to the client experience I want to provide while also knowing not every client has this need. I wish I had a magic shortcut answer for this 😅 Best I can say is to
pay attention to what your clients talk about. If they talk about pain points, consider how you can solve them with photography. Then build your packages and pricing around their
needs. For example, maybe an influencer who wants new profile photos is a frequent thing you encounter. But after some conversation, you find out that a lot of influencers are
"brand ambassadors" for companies they get products from they have to promote. Maybe some influencers wish they had better-quality product photos than using their phones, but still
have that authentic, imperfect, UGC (user generated content) vibe. Kind of a hybrid of phone-style photos that are shot with a better camera, lens and lighting. If that's
confusing, that's because it is, to me lol. So maybe offering a "profile photo makeover + product shoot for brand ambassadors" photo package could be a hit? Here are videos with
examples of that kind of influencer shoot: Perfectly imperfect images will make you money! by The F/Stops Here The Most Chaotic Father-Daughter Photoshoots Ever by The F/Stops Here
What's funny is he is a longtime veteran photographer, an old dog learning new tricks. But his daughter is a young beauty/cosmetics influencer who's attuned to the social media
world. Speaking of improving the client experience. I can't find the video, but that same photographer had a selfie stick that he let an influencer use to record BTS (behind the
scenes) content while they did the photo shoot. Many of us would assume that all influencers already have a selfie stick, but she didn't and she was so happy to use one. I had to
check my Amazon wish list for the product name: KraftGeek Automatic Tripod for iPhone 66" - You tap the bottom of the tripod on the ground and the 3 legs instantly spread open. So
something simple like having a selfie stick for influencer clients to borrow could be a great boost for the client experience. Also, do you contract with a few professionals you
work with exclusively or have a group of “preferred vendors” you choose from and book based on availability for these shoots. Mostly the latter. You find people who do good work
and you get along well with. So you try to keep working with them. Big tip: always be networking and trying to meet more hair and makeup artists. The best ones are always busy! Ha
ha ha. You often don't get your top 3 picks when you need them for a shoot. I would honestly shoot to have like 5 MUAs on call and constantly look for more to add to your roster.
Going further, here's a post I wrote on this: How to assemble a team u/gotthelowdown avatar gotthelowdown • 1y ago I am working on a style guide but I like the idea of doing a
zoom/FaceTime closet-consultation. Using my Google-fu🥋 I did these searches to find examples of style guides: headshot style guide filetype:pdf = What to Wear Headshot Guide by
Kelly Ann Photography portrait style guide filetype:pdf = Family Portrait Session Style Guide by Angela Clifton Photography personal brand photo style guide filetype:pdf = Personal
Brand Photo Shoot Planning Guide by Chanel Nicole Co. Hope these help you to create your own style guide. u/ScoopDat avatar ScoopDat Cake icon • 1y ago High end photographers have
agents, it makes all this stuff you’re talking about basically irrelevant. Let your portfolio speak, and don’t make yourself look like a buffoon or abrasive while working. Being
punctual, and on time, and simply delivering more than enough for sane folks. If you want to offer pampering services because your work can’t speak for itself - then you may need
to do some digging on “luxury services” in general for all industries. Though I’m not sure which clients care enough about that sort of stuff - though with the amount of “luxury”
companies out on the market today, it seems there’s enough people who care less about results and more about them being treated like royalty. u/Either_Weakness_3577 avatar
Either_Weakness_3577 OP • 1y ago Well the reason I ask is because many times, you can be fantastic at what you do and yes, your work speaks for itself… but also, coming from a
career in marketing, high end clients expect a different experience. I personally feel I offer a very professional experience already, but it never hurts to explore something I
might be missing. It’s pertinent to set up your business model to be relevant to your target audience. I’m not here to serve clients that want to be treated like royalty, that’s
not a high end client, those are the clients asking for everything cheaper and more for less. As I take this step in my business, Id like to learn from those who are already there,
see what matters and what doesn’t ☺️ u/ArcAcademy avatar u/ArcAcademy • Promoted LEARN IT. WELD IT. MAKE IT.: Learn to weld in Chicago. Our welding classes are design for
beginners. Check out our Welding Boot Camp starting MAY 11th. Sign Up arcacademy.com Thumbnail image: LEARN IT. WELD IT. MAKE IT.: Learn to weld in Chicago. Our welding classes are
design for beginners. Check out our Welding Boot Camp starting MAY 11th. u/mcdj avatar mcdj • 1y ago Photo shoot guide? Client questionnaire? Not sure where you’re getting these
ideas from, but at the top end of the game, neither are applicable. Annie Leibowitz does not ask her clients to fill out a questionnaire. Take a page out of the masters’ book and
