• 10d ago What field should I try getting into to become an entrepreneur? 72 upvotes · 108 comments Entrepreneurship is way harder mentally than I expected r/Entrepreneur • 4mo ago
Entrepreneurship is way harder mentally than I expected 335 upvotes · 162 comments Anyone has a life changing moment because of failed business? r/smallbusiness • 1y ago Anyone has
a life changing moment because of failed business? 14 upvotes · 26 comments hot take: mbas aren’t useless. they’re just changing. r/MBAIndia • 8mo ago hot take: mbas aren’t
useless. they’re just changing. 71 upvotes · 11 comments What I learned in the last decade about building a business and marketing it. r/Entrepreneur • 3y ago What I learned in the
last decade about building a business and marketing it. 233 upvotes · 51 comments How did you get into entrepreneurship and how is it going so far? r/Entrepreneur • 4mo ago How did
you get into entrepreneurship and how is it going so far? 68 upvotes · 90 comments Entrepreneur Realities r/Entrepreneur • 3mo ago Entrepreneur Realities 290 upvotes · 188 comments
How can I train my mind to become more entrepreneurial? r/Entrepreneur • 2mo ago How can I train my mind to become more entrepreneurial? 186 upvotes · 227 comments AI is about to
make decisions for CEOs… and most companies aren’t ready. r/zervvotech • 5mo ago AI is about to make decisions for CEOs… and most companies aren’t ready. 1 upvote The most
dangerous mindset to have in entrepreneurship is this... r/Entrepreneur • 21d ago The most dangerous mindset to have in entrepreneurship is this... 44 upvotes · 59 comments How do
you start a business knowing that if it fails then your life is ruined? r/Entrepreneur • 6mo ago How do you start a business knowing that if it fails then your life is ruined? 39
upvotes · 78 comments when did you realize that you're an entrepreneur? r/Entrepreneur • 5mo ago when did you realize that you're an entrepreneur? 123 upvotes · 137 comments Most
people don’t need more advice. They need someone who actually listens long enough to understand what they’re really trying to say. r/spirituality • 5mo ago Most people don’t need
more advice. They need someone who actually listens long enough to understand what they’re really trying to say. 58 upvotes · 17 comments anyone else feel like being an
entrepreneur is 90% figuring it out as you go? r/Entrepreneur • 8mo ago anyone else feel like being an entrepreneur is 90% figuring it out as you go? 72 upvotes · 51 comments No
one talks about how mentally crushing it is seeing your peers matriculate into careers while trying to build a business that still has zero results r/Entrepreneur • 4mo ago No one
talks about how mentally crushing it is seeing your peers matriculate into careers while trying to build a business that still has zero results 176 upvotes · 130 comments How do
you know a business has "failed" and no longer worth pursuing? r/Entrepreneur • 7mo ago How do you know a business has "failed" and no longer worth pursuing? 15 upvotes · 54
comments Community Info Section r/Entrepreneur snoo_dealwithit Join Entrepreneur Our community brings together individuals driven by a shared commitment to problem-solving,
professional networking, and collaborative innovation, all with the goal of making a positive impact. We welcome a diverse range of pursuits, from side projects and small
businesses to venture-backed startups and solo ventures. However, this is a space for genuine connection and exchange of ideas, not self-promotion. Please refrain from promoting
personal blogs, consulting services, books, MLMs, opinions. Show more Public Reddit Rules Privacy Policy User Agreement Your Privacy Choices Accessibility Reddit, Inc. © 2026. All
rights reserved. Collapse Navigation Skip to main content 10 truths I've learned during my first year as a founder : r/Entrepreneur r/Entrepreneur Search in r/Entrepreneur Get App
Log In Expand user menu Skip to NavigationSkip to Right Sidebar Back Go to Entrepreneur r/Entrepreneur • 1y ago FoundersArm 10 truths I've learned during my first year as a founder
Lessons Learned Plan on making $0 for 6 months. Budget for it. Even if you beat this timeline, you'll be mentally prepared. You know nothing. Embrace being clueless - ego kills
startups silently. Nobody knows you exist. Use this invisibility to take risks and make mistakes while no one's watching. "If you build it, they will come" is total BS. You need to
hustle to get your product in front of people. Nothing makes you special - but be confident in your ability to outwork others. You'll grind 1000 hours to make $10. Do things that
don't scale at first. It sucks but it's necessary. Success = opportunities missed. Friends, parties, events - you'll sacrifice a lot. Choose wisely. You're not just a founder.
You're customer support, sales, product, and 100 other roles. Rejection becomes your new normal. Getting ghosted is just Tuesday. Toughen up. Don't compare your day 1 to someone's
year 5. Comparison kills motivation. Upvote 299 Downvote 50 Go to comments Share Join the conversation Sort by: Top (Default) Search Comments Expand comment search Comments Section
eFS_3PL_Specialist • 1y ago Completely agree. Another important one I would add to the list: 11. Perfection is just procrastination wearing a nice outfit. You’re not refining,
you’re avoiding. There's not such thing as a "perfect decision". Send it. Learn from it. Level it up later. Upvote 50 Downvote Reply Award Share biz_booster • 1y ago Perfection is
just procrastination wearing a nice outfit. Hahaha....So true. Upvote 5 Downvote Reply Award Share u/FoundersArm avatar FoundersArm OP • 1y ago agreed! 3 more replies [deleted] •
1y ago u/PutridAd9473 avatar PutridAd9473 • 1y ago Plan on making money since the first day. If you don't, you won't be prepared for it. You have to anticipate and make an effort
in order to success. Think like a rich person and this won't be another side project. You know everything. It's your product so get ready to be the person in this world that knows
most of something. Value yourself. Give yourself value and others will perceive you as valuable. Everyone knows you exist. Specially on the internet, every step you take can be
recorded. Don't take unnecessary risks. If you build it, they will come. Something makes you special - finally you can proudly say that about yourself. You'll grind 10 hours to
make $1000. Scalation is the key. The more isolated you are, the higher the chance to fail. Success = opportunities taken. Tell to your friends, assist to parties, meet new people
and talk about yourself and your business. Social is key. You just a founder. Let others do the non founder work. Hire people from other countries very cheap. You CAN'T BE 100
other roles. Rejection should make you rethink everything. This is most important at the beginning, where you have a chance to guess what happened and correct it to avoid it. If
you are ignoring rejection you are missing the opportunity to improve yourself. Compare your day 1 to someone's year 5. Comparison IS motivation. prsh_al • 1y ago Sounds like a
wantrepreneur to me u/DoubleG357 avatar DoubleG357 • 1y ago Here’s one that I believe a lot of folks miss until Uncle Sam wants his cut…TRACK all revenues and expenses. All of it.
Yes, all of it. It’s amazing how bookkeeping gets put to the side simply because you don’t want to do it…but then when you get hit with a 10,000 clean up fee now you don’t have the
money to pay for it and your taxes are late or inaccurate or you have a large tax bill. It’s important. So treat it as such. Or, if you want help, I’ll do it for you.
eraofcelestials2 • 1y ago Well said, "You're customer support, sales, product, and 100 other roles." hoboskatov • 1y ago been an entrepreneur all my life and if i just add 1 thing
to this already awesome list- business is about people. People's problems, solution for people. abstracting that away with words like customer/user/market can be detrimental. Find
a single person who's problem you can solve and you will literally have an entire market to go after. u/FoundersArm avatar FoundersArm OP • 1y ago strongly agree (sometimes you
also have to make them realize that they have a problem and that you have the solution for that problem). SriGokulKrishnan • 1y ago 2nd point 🔥 unlikelyolives • 1y ago #3 is a good
one. I used to feel a lot of pressure to "get it right" and present professionally... but I've learned that sometimes throwing jello at a tree and seeing what sticks is a faster
(and more fun!) way to grow. [deleted] • 1y ago Music_Maniac_19 • 1y ago 100% agree. Also, not everyone will like or love what you like or love. It’s taking me a while to learn to
learn that not every person will be excited about what I have to offer. 1 more reply Goldenflash1179 • 1y ago Well said. I agree with all these points. I took as many meetings as I
could in the first year because my only value was my time. Meetings don’t always correlate with projects but they are a good way to convince people you are subject matter expert.
This translates to jobs and collabs down the road. liminite • 1y ago Fauxnder life Delicious-Living-961 • 1y ago Speak brother! dropthepencil • 1y ago 11 And knowing all of those
doesn't equal success. SonofaBaca • 1y ago 9 Getting ghosted right now but I know if I can just get a few nibbles, the customers will come. New to Reddit? Create your account and
connect with a world of communities. Continue With Phone Number By continuing, you agree to our User Agreement and acknowledge that you understand the Privacy Policy. Related
Answers Section Related Answers Innovative ways to validate a business idea Innovative validation methods that get real commitment quickly are: pre-sells, problem-first interviews,
fake-door tests, and low-cost prototypes that force real behavior. Pre-sell or get payment Pre-selling proves willingness to pay. "Make a sale. That is the only validation you
need. Get a PO" Small refundable deposits filter out casual interest. "invite them to reserve a beta seat with a $20 refundable Stripe link. If they swipe the card, they’re feeling
the pain" Problem-first customer conversations Ask about past behavior, not hypotheticals. "The question isn't 'would you use this?' It's 'what are you doing about this problem
right now?'" Frame interviews so people tell stories about real pain. "Getting people to tell 'problem stories' instead of reacting to your idea... made conversations way more
natural" Fake-door tests and landing pages Run minimal landing pages or ads to measure clicks and signups. "Create an ad or landing page about your product/service. Monitor clicks
& signups before the product is even built." Keep pages simple and honest to avoid false signals. "Keep it simple and clearly state it's 'coming soon' or 'early access.'" Observe
existing workarounds and communities Find people using bad hacks or paying for messy solutions. "I stopped listening to 'cool idea' comments and started looking for people actively
complaining on reddit and hacker news." Join niche forums, Discord, or Facebook groups where the problem is discussed. "Skip reddit for this niche honestly, longevity and
eco-parent communities live on facebook groups and discord servers." Combine signals and sequence tests Sequence: talk first, then pre-sell or fake-door, then build MVP. "Combining
makes sense, but I'd sequence it: conversations first... then pre-sell... then build." Measure commitment not just interest (emails vs. payments vs. PO). "Pre-selling is honestly
the only signal worth trusting... get someone to actually pay you, even $1" A practical quick plan: run 10 focused problem interviews this week; build a simple landing page and a
fake-door ad campaign; offer a small refundable deposit or discounted founder pre-order; and watch for real payments or industry veterans saying they'd buy. Those actions give
reliable, low-cost evidence before building a full product. Communities For Business Ideas Startup_Ideas 37K weekly visitors Join This subreddit is for sharing innovative startup
ideas. Links and discussion about startups and descriptions of startups are welcome! Share ideas. Improve ideas. Expand upon other ideas. Combine ideas. Implement ideas.
Entrepreneur 431K weekly visitors Join Our community brings together individuals driven by a shared commitment to problem-solving, professional networking, and collaborative
innovation, all with the goal of making a positive impact. We welcome a diverse range of pursuits, from side projects and small businesses to venture-backed startups and solo
ventures. However, this is a space for genuine connection and exchange of ideas, not self-promotion. Please refrain from promoting personal blogs, consulting services, books, MLMs,
opinions. EntrepreneurRideAlong 58K weekly visitors Join Follow real founders in real time. No gurus, no hindsight. Just the raw, unfiltered journey of starting and scaling
companies from idea to execution. Whether you’re building in public or watching from the sidelines, this is where entrepreneurship gets real. SaaS 256K weekly visitors Join
Discussions and useful links for SaaS owners, online business owners, and more. Entrepreneurship 5.8K weekly visitors Join A community dedicated to entrepreneurship questions and
advice. ecommerce 87K weekly visitors Join A community dedicated to the design and implementation of eCommerce sites. For seasoned retailers or newcomers to the industry, this is
the perfect place to seek guidance and discuss all aspects of selling online. Engage in insightful discussions on topics such as selling tips, marketing strategies, SEO
optimization, product selection, checkout processes, conversions, and more. Our community provides a platform for helpful and honest discussions aimed at helping you increase your
online sales. See Answer Best resources for startup funding advice How to build a strong brand identity Lessons learned from failed startups Tips for creating a compelling business
pitch More posts you may like What field should I try getting into to become an entrepreneur? r/Entrepreneur • 10d ago What field should I try getting into to become an
entrepreneur? 72 upvotes · 108 comments I've built 4 MVP's in 2024. Here's what I've learned. r/SaaS • 1y ago I've built 4 MVP's in 2024. Here's what I've learned. 114 upvotes · 69
comments 🚀 Scaling a SaaS Business in 2025: 5 Hard Lessons You Need to Know r/SaaS • 1y ago 🚀 Scaling a SaaS Business in 2025: 5 Hard Lessons You Need to Know 2 upvotes · 2
comments The worst advice I got when I was getting started... r/SideProject • 1y ago The worst advice I got when I was getting started... 57 upvotes · 31 comments the best advice i
have received during starting my first startup r/Entrepreneur • 6mo ago the best advice i have received during starting my first startup 42 upvotes · 31 comments I've spent
hundreds of hours researching and I've cracked the code, I know what the people want: GRITTY REALISM. r/BokunoheroFanfiction • 1y ago I've spent hundreds of hours researching and
I've cracked the code, I know what the people want: GRITTY REALISM. 133 upvotes · 15 comments 5 years ago I found r/Entrepreneur with no job and no plan. Today I'm here to give
back and hear your stories r/Entrepreneur • 4mo ago 5 years ago I found r/Entrepreneur with no job and no plan. Today I'm here to give back and hear your stories 90 upvotes · 77
comments What's something founders think will grow their buisness... But usually doesn't? r/Entrepreneur • 28d ago What's something founders think will grow their buisness... But
usually doesn't? 58 upvotes · 134 comments New Entrepreneurs, post your biggest roadblock. 5+ year founders, reply with advice. r/Entrepreneur • 2mo ago New Entrepreneurs, post
your biggest roadblock. 5+ year founders, reply with advice. 34 upvotes · 109 comments Advice from a 9-figure entrepreneur r/Entrepreneur • 5mo ago Advice from a 9-figure
entrepreneur 1.1K upvotes · 585 comments What real problems should founders focus on today r/Entrepreneur • 5mo ago What real problems should founders focus on today 5 upvotes · 13
comments From Side Project to Paying Clients in 30 Days: How I Built My Agency’s First MVP Pipeline r/indiehackers • 1y ago From Side Project to Paying Clients in 30 Days: How I
Built My Agency’s First MVP Pipeline 1 upvote Entrepreneur Realities r/Entrepreneur • 3mo ago Entrepreneur Realities 290 upvotes · 188 comments 15 years of my startup failures
where I almost lost everything r/Entrepreneur • 7mo ago 15 years of my startup failures where I almost lost everything 60 upvotes · 37 comments To celebrate 10 years, I spent 6
months turning S1 of O&B into a video game r/magictavern • 1y ago To celebrate 10 years, I spent 6 months turning S1 of O&B into a video game r/magictavern - To celebrate 10 years,
I spent 6 months turning S1 of O&B into a video game 155 upvotes · 11 comments Founders, what's the one piece of advice you would give to other startup founders for success?
r/Entrepreneur • 6mo ago Founders, what's the one piece of advice you would give to other startup founders for success? 27 upvotes · 62 comments MY past entrepreneur experience is
hurting my job hunt process r/Entrepreneur • 7mo ago MY past entrepreneur experience is hurting my job hunt process 254 upvotes · 106 comments Starting my entrepreneurial journey
and I'd love the community's help. r/Entrepreneur • 2mo ago Starting my entrepreneurial journey and I'd love the community's help. 42 upvotes · 96 comments Explain your startup in
1 sentence ? r/Entrepreneur • 2mo ago Explain your startup in 1 sentence ? 73 upvotes · 279 comments The 2 Biggest Traps That Keep 90% of People Stuck r/Newsletters • 1y ago The 2
Biggest Traps That Keep 90% of People Stuck 6 upvotes · 10 comments Everyone thinks your business idea sucks, stop taking advice from strangers and just start r/Entrepreneur • 10d
ago Everyone thinks your business idea sucks, stop taking advice from strangers and just start 215 upvotes · 186 comments Update: one year as a fifo worker r/perth • 1y ago Update:
one year as a fifo worker 88 upvotes · 73 comments I started my business without a dime 3 years ago and managed to scale it to multi-6 figures/year. Sharing my insights here for
anyone who needs to read this. r/Entrepreneur • 5mo ago I started my business without a dime 3 years ago and managed to scale it to multi-6 figures/year. Sharing my insights here
for anyone who needs to read this. 200 upvotes · 87 comments Finding your first 100 customers as a technical founder r/Entrepreneurs • 1y ago Finding your first 100 customers as a
technical founder 4 upvotes · 5 comments Most founders don’t need a full app. They need a smaller first version. r/Entrepreneur • 7d ago Most founders don’t need a full app. They
need a smaller first version. 64 upvotes · 86 comments Community Info Section r/Entrepreneur snoo_dealwithit Join Entrepreneur Our community brings together individuals driven by a
shared commitment to problem-solving, professional networking, and collaborative innovation, all with the goal of making a positive impact. We welcome a diverse range of pursuits,
from side projects and small businesses to venture-backed startups and solo ventures. However, this is a space for genuine connection and exchange of ideas, not self-promotion.
Please refrain from promoting personal blogs, consulting services, books, MLMs, opinions. Show more Public Top Posts Reddit reReddit: Top posts of April 9, 2025 Reddit reReddit:
Top posts of April 2025 Reddit reReddit: Top posts of 2025 Reddit Rules Privacy Policy User Agreement Your Privacy Choices Accessibility Reddit, Inc. © 2026. All rights reserved.
Collapse Navigation Skip to main content Can someone help me understand buyer psychology here? : r/BehindTheClosetDoor r/BehindTheClosetDoor Search in r/BehindTheClosetDoor Get App
Log In Expand user menu Skip to NavigationSkip to Right Sidebar Back Go to BehindTheClosetDoor r/BehindTheClosetDoor • 9mo ago Beginning_Ebb4220 Can someone help me understand
buyer psychology here? I am a part-time reseller. We sell over 1,000 items per year. A few times each year a buyer on Poshmark will message me, say the item has a problem, they
will claim it has a flaw (stitching for example), or doesn’t fit like other items they have from the brand, and a few will even claim a clothing item is fake. All items are
authentic and purchased from reputable businesses, some new and some used. I always support the buyer when there is a listing error or flaw and say they are welcome to return the
item, but I also stand firm that the item is authentic because I feel it’s important to counter BS. The weird thing is after I say they can return the clothing they go radio silent
- I never hear back, they don’t usually publish a review, and they don’t take any effort to open the case or return the item. Again this is a handful of buyers on 1,000+ sales but
it’s uniquely on Posh - the complaints are loud and toothless. Can anyone give me an idea about what’s going on? FWIW we post a lot of pictures and I try to describe all flaws -
sometimes something may slip through inspection because I work fast with limited hours, but we try and make things right. Upvote 10 Downvote 18 Go to comments Share u/Colgate_US
avatar Colgate_US • Promoted Get ready to WOW. Brush your way to a brighter smile with Colgate Optic White Pro Series. Shop Now shop.mikmak.ai Clickable image which will reveal the
video player: Get ready to WOW. Brush your way to a brighter smile with Colgate Optic White Pro Series. Collapse video player 0:00 / 0:00 Join the conversation Sort by: Best Search
Comments Expand comment search Comments Section u/frivolities avatar frivolities • 9mo ago I think that some buyers just don’t want to go through the process of shipping the item
back and they just take the loss and move on. Amazon offers returnless refunds on occasion and I think some buyers are hoping they can get the same through other platforms.
romilda-vane • 9mo ago I think it’s buyers who don’t understand the Poshmark return process and think you’ll offer a partial refund to avoid a bad review. They don’t get that it’s
not eBay, that’s not how posh works. Da-newhorizon • 9mo ago With Poshmark one time I got offered a return but I did not realize I had to ship back the whole order so I cancelled
the return and just reposhed instead. Makes sense with bundles but something I definitely didn’t think about at first. [deleted] • 9mo ago I've only had a couple like that but I
usually don't even respond unless it was something egregious. If they want to open a return case they can. Had someone send a huge rant about how the pajama pants she bought are a
different material than other pajama pants she had from the brand (so not the same style) and how disappointed she was. $10 pajama pants. It's one of the things I love about Posh
over eBay. I don't have to bend over backwards to cheer up customers that can't read because they can't destroy me with bad feedback. Brilliant_Stuff2883 • 9mo ago In this case I
would say the buyer is looking for a partial refund but still wants the item. What they are saying may or may not be true. u/opholar avatar opholar • 9mo ago The buyer wants the
item for free. So they are contacting you assuming you’ll offer some sort of a refund (full or partial). They know it’s not legal to ship counterfeits, so they know they can’t
legally return that item. So saying it’s counterfeit ensures they get to keep it. Saying some minor flaw is going to make it “just easier to offer a bit of a refund” instead of
doing a whole return. But this is Poshmark and the seller has nothing to do with returns or refunds. So once they find out that in order for them to get a refund they have to
actually submit something to PM for PM to review, they are no longer interested in trying to scam for a few bucks. susangg9 • 9mo ago Poshmark now has option for seller to approve
returns or partial refunds. I noticed when a buyer of mine wanted to return some pants. u/opholar avatar opholar • 9mo ago No kidding. That’s brand new, huh? Wow. 1 more reply
u/Jeff_Ellis avatar u/Jeff_Ellis • Promoted this app feels illegal, but literally isn’t 💅 this app feels illegal, but literally isn’t 💅 Earn $500 Playing Games freecash.com Sign Up
Infinite-Dream-5228 • 9mo ago They probably know that posh will allow a return if they say there is an authenticity concern. If you beat them to the punch and let them know they
can return, they have no leverage for a partial refund. Or they are weird like me and hate to hassle with returning things. 2bFree-614 • 9mo ago This. Some buyers know that if they
came the item is inauthentic PM will pay attention. I had someone claim the NWT $59 pajamas I sold her for $32 were not authentic. Who the hades is faking $59 pajamas? Ridiculous.
Too many scammers out here. These are the same people that will buy a dress, wear it to an event and return it afterwards. susangg9 • 9mo ago They’re fishing for refunds and
partial refunds without having to return item. eBay buyers ofter try that. I always tell them to return for s refund. This weeds out the scammers. MellowFred • 9mo ago I think they
are buyers used to shopping on Temu, SHEIN, and TikTok who are used to getting a refund but being told to keep the item. It’s shearer for these retailers to do that than to incur
the expense of handling the return. They are fishing for the same thing from you. Upbeat_Weird_7321 • 9mo ago ebay offers returnless and or partial refunds and they’re probably
trying to see if you will offer a discount of some kind u/TheGreaterTool avatar TheGreaterTool • 9mo ago We’ve sold over 4000 items on the platform since 21 and there’s maybe 20
buyers who have had issues like this. Retailers would kill for a 0.5% shrinkage rate. New to Reddit? Create your account and connect with a world of communities. Continue With
Phone Number By continuing, you agree to our User Agreement and acknowledge that you understand the Privacy Policy. Related Answers Section Related Answers Most surprising items
that sell on Poshmark Poshmark isn't just for clothes; Redditors report surprising success selling diverse items, from men's accessories to vintage home goods and even lingerie.
Unexpectedly Popular Categories Men's Items: Men's accessories like pocket squares and belts, as well as general men's clothing, sell quickly and often at full price. "I somehow
ended up with men's pocket squares. Listed them on a whim. Like who's going to buy pocket squares, right? They all sold within 72 hours at full price." Vintage and Niche Apparel:
Items like opera gloves, specific vintage jeans, and even "granny bras" find buyers. "Opera gloves. I had 25 pairs from my mother and grandmother as well as my own that I wore once
to events and never again. They were all sold within a week." Intimate Apparel and Sleepwear: New-with-tags lingerie and even bundles of granny panties have surprised sellers with
how fast they move. "NWT lingerie (because Valentine's Day)." Home Goods and Collectibles Puzzles and Books: These items, particularly cookbooks or themed collections, can be good
sellers. "Puzzles are my latest favorite example of the difference this can make." Small Home Decor: Shot glasses, coffee mugs with funny slogans, old tea cups, and even vintage
children's sleeping bags have found buyers. "I’ve been surprised to sell a dozen or so random sports teams or souvenir vacation shot glasses for more money than I expected." Craft
Supplies: Yarn, especially specific types, can be a surprisingly fast-selling item. "And my yarn goes so quickly." Brand-Specific Surprises Mainstream Brands: Plus-size Old Navy
and basic Old Navy t-shirts, despite their low retail value, can sell well. "Surprisingly, plus size Old Navy" Outdoor and Workwear: Brands like Carhartt, Duluth Trading Company,
and specialized snow boots are often snapped up. "Hats have done surprisingly well for me! I love thrifting and occasionally sell what I find on Poshmark, aka I'm not a
professional reseller." Harley Davidson: This brand consistently ranks as a top seller for some Poshmark users. "Harley Davidson is one of my top selling brands." Do you want to
explore selling tips for these unexpected items on Poshmark? See Answer Tips for taking eye-catching product photos Strategies for pricing items competitively How to handle
difficult buyers on Poshmark Creative ways to promote your Poshmark closet More posts you may like Why do sellers do this? r/BehindTheClosetDoor • 7mo ago Why do sellers do this?
r/BehindTheClosetDoor - Why do sellers do this? 3 71 upvotes · 58 comments Can someone help me understand these? r/jawsurgery • 1y ago Can someone help me understand these?
r/jawsurgery - Can someone help me understand these? 2 1 upvote · 4 comments why can't people be honest with what they're selling? r/depoop • 2mo ago why can't people be honest
with what they're selling? r/depoop - why can't people be honest with what they're selling? 35 upvotes · 7 comments Remember when salespeople were actually knowledgeable?
r/nostalgia • 6mo ago Remember when salespeople were actually knowledgeable? r/nostalgia - Remember when salespeople were actually knowledgeable? 578 upvotes · 58 comments First
time buyer r/Diamonds • 9d ago First time buyer r/Diamonds - First time buyer 0:33 46 upvotes · 36 comments Can someone help me understand companies? r/victoria3 • 1y ago Can
someone help me understand companies? 1 upvote · 1 comment I am NEVER selling during Coachella season ever again r/BehindTheClosetDoor • 15d ago I am NEVER selling during Coachella
season ever again 47 upvotes · 28 comments Sales CAN be Taught r/sales • 4d ago Sales CAN be Taught 27 comments Promoted sidebar promoted post thumbnail when buyers have commitment
issues r/depoop • 3mo ago when buyers have commitment issues r/depoop - when buyers have commitment issues 4 50 upvotes · 7 comments What does the richest salesperson you know
SELL? r/sales • 23d ago What does the richest salesperson you know SELL? 416 upvotes · 714 comments Tried a few cross listing tools… still not 100% sold r/BehindTheClosetDoor • 20d
ago Tried a few cross listing tools… still not 100% sold 16 upvotes · 8 comments Just blatantly lying to buyers 🤦🏾‍♀️ r/depoop • 4mo ago Just blatantly lying to buyers 🤦🏾‍♀️
r/depoop - Just blatantly lying to buyers 🤦🏾‍♀️ 4 1.1K upvotes · 79 comments Can anyone help me understand? r/TFABChartStalkers • 9mo ago Can anyone help me understand?
r/TFABChartStalkers - Can anyone help me understand? 2 upvotes · 5 comments Delusional buyer r/depoop • 22d ago Delusional buyer r/depoop - Delusional buyer 3 171 upvotes · 45
comments Can someone explain Reta peak to me? r/Retatrutide • 1y ago Can someone explain Reta peak to me? 23 upvotes · 24 comments What do people want to buy? r/CraftFairs • 7mo
ago What do people want to buy? r/CraftFairs - What do people want to buy? 23 upvotes · 12 comments why are some sellers so greedy r/depoop • 7mo ago why are some sellers so greedy
r/depoop - why are some sellers so greedy 65 upvotes · 9 comments Buyer might be high r/depoop • 6mo ago Buyer might be high r/depoop - Buyer might be high 6.9K upvotes · 120
comments What signals to you that a person is a serious buyer? r/askcarsales • 5mo ago What signals to you that a person is a serious buyer? 165 upvotes · 146 comments Does anyone
else struggle with thinking their work isn’t good enough to sell? r/CraftFairs • 6mo ago Does anyone else struggle with thinking their work isn’t good enough to sell? 46 upvotes ·
23 comments “DO NOT BUY” - how about you just put the real price in the listing? r/depoop • 6d ago “DO NOT BUY” - how about you just put the real price in the listing? r/depoop -
“DO NOT BUY” - how about you just put the real price in the listing? 3 111 upvotes · 39 comments Can someone help type me? r/JungianTypology • 1y ago Can someone help type me?
r/JungianTypology - Can someone help type me? 5 upvotes · 6 comments Do you go into detail when telling a buyer no? r/DogBreeding • 3mo ago Do you go into detail when telling a
buyer no? 25 upvotes · 13 comments Can anyone help me ID these? r/antkeeping • 10mo ago Can anyone help me ID these? r/antkeeping - Can anyone help me ID these? 4 1 upvote · 4
comments Are any of you in sales? What kind? r/autism • 3mo ago Are any of you in sales? What kind? r/autism - Are any of you in sales? What kind? 44 upvotes · 39 comments View
Post in Русский See more Community Info Section r/BehindTheClosetDoor Join BehindTheClosetDoor Welcome to r/BehindTheClosetDoor, the ultimate sanctuary to discuss the wild ride of
Poshmark and reselling! Dive in, share your stories, ask questions, and maybe even spill some tea! Show more Public Top Posts Reddit reReddit: Top posts of July 31, 2025 Reddit
reReddit: Top posts of July 2025 Reddit reReddit: Top posts of 2025 Reddit Rules Privacy Policy User Agreement Your Privacy Choices Accessibility Reddit, Inc. © 2026. All rights
reserved. Collapse Navigation Skip to main content What real customer reviews taught me about buyer psychology : r/ecommerce r/ecommerce Search in r/ecommerce Get App Log In Expand
user menu Skip to NavigationSkip to Right Sidebar Back Go to ecommerce r/ecommerce • 7mo ago Kudo_buzz What real customer reviews taught me about buyer psychology I used to assume
conversions were all about design and marketing… until I saw how much reviews drive decision-making. Turns out: • People trust detailed realism more than perfect praise • A single
customer photo can sell more than polished product shots • Public responses turn criticism into proof of integrity Entrepreneurship at its core is trust-building. How do you
collect and use feedback in your business? Upvote 32 Downvote 26 Go to comments Share u/RedditforBusiness avatar RedditforBusiness • Promoted Reach 100K active communities on
Reddit Learn More ads.reddit.com Thumbnail image: Reach 100K active communities on Reddit Join the conversation Sort by: Best Search Comments Expand comment search Comments Section
maninie1 • 7mo ago love this take! especially that line about realism. what most brands miss is that reviews don’t just prove trust, they regulate rhythm. every real human sentence
in a review resets the buyer’s brain from ad-mode to empathy-mode. that’s why polished praise feels fake, it skips the micro-hesitation our brains expect before belief. when a
customer says, “i was skeptical at first, but…,” that “but” is the conversion. it’s the brain’s proof of safety. u/Kudo_buzz avatar Kudo_buzz OP • 6mo ago Exactly, this is like an
everyday situation. You nailed it. maninie1 • 6mo ago exactly! it’s those small “everyday” reviews that rewire people faster than any campaign. when someone says “i didn’t think
it’d work, but…” their brain’s literally switching from defense to safety. that’s the real marketing moment.. when skepticism melts into self-permission. once a buyer feels that
shift, the rest of the funnel’s just logistics [deleted] • 7mo ago [deleted] • 7mo ago u/tuckastheruckas avatar tuckastheruckas • 6mo ago really interesting. Do you mind expanding
on this part? A single customer photo can sell more than polished product shots u/Ok_Sir_3090 avatar Ok_Sir_3090 • 6mo ago If a customer uploads a photo with their review = good
GoodVibesArchitect • 6mo ago 100%. Customers reviews with photos do work Novel_Explorer347 • 6mo ago So true, I’ve noticed that authentic imperfection sells better than glossy
perfection. When people see both the good and the bad, they believe the story. We buy trust before we buy products. [deleted] • 6mo ago u/woocommerce-ads avatar u/woocommerce-ads •
Promoted Maximize your profit by controlling your costs. Learn More woocommerce.com Thumbnail image: Maximize your profit by controlling your costs. u/maverick-dude avatar
maverick-dude • 6mo ago You could at least add a tag to your post indicating that you're a commercially-oriented entity soliciting for input related to the widgets you sell.
u/PianoYvad avatar PianoYvad • 6mo ago Could not agree more. I work for the UGC platform Flowbox and our clients always see a big impact when they start integrating customer
content and reviews on their online stores. Nothing beats authenticity. We humans cannot help but be suspicious when the photo or the video is too neat or too perfect. We want the
true stuff :) u/Kudo_buzz avatar Kudo_buzz OP • 6mo ago Lovely will check out Flowbox. [deleted] • 7mo ago [deleted] • 7mo ago u/AxonbyAppLovin avatar u/AxonbyAppLovin • Promoted
Profitable advertising made simple Profitable advertising made simple Profitable advertising made simple Profitable advertising made simple Profitable advertising made simple
Profitable advertising made simple Profitable advertising made simple axon.ai Learn More [deleted] • 6mo ago [deleted] • 6mo ago New to Reddit? Create your account and connect with
a world of communities. Continue With Phone Number By continuing, you agree to our User Agreement and acknowledge that you understand the Privacy Policy. Related Answers Section
Related Answers Factors leading to bad customer reviews Impact of detailed realism in reviews Effects of negative reviews on sales Top strategies for boosting online sales
Platforms for launching an eCommerce store More posts you may like as small business sellers/owners, what do you look for in positive feedback/reviews from your buyers?
r/smallbusiness • 4mo ago as small business sellers/owners, what do you look for in positive feedback/reviews from your buyers? 3 upvotes · 9 comments u/ThriventFinancial avatar
ThriventFinancial • Promoted Where Money Means More™ Thumbnail image: Where Money Means More™ thrivent.com Learn More [HELP] Reviews for Clients / Buyers ? r/Fiverr • 5mo ago
[HELP] Reviews for Clients / Buyers ? 4 upvotes · 5 comments The Psychology Behind Online Marketing: Why People Click, Like & Buy r/DigitalMarketingHack • 7mo ago The Psychology
Behind Online Marketing: Why People Click, Like & Buy 4 upvotes What’s the honest way to get genuine customer reviews? r/Entrepreneurs • 23d ago What’s the honest way to get
genuine customer reviews? 8 upvotes · 17 comments Should This Buyer's Feedback Concern Me? r/Ebay • 2y ago Should This Buyer's Feedback Concern Me? r/Ebay - Should This Buyer's
Feedback Concern Me? 7 upvotes · 32 comments Is anyone actually having success with influencers? r/ecommerce • 1mo ago Is anyone actually having success with influencers? 56
upvotes · 122 comments Do small businesses actually care about getting more Google reviews? r/canadasmallbusiness • 21d ago Do small businesses actually care about getting more
Google reviews? 3 upvotes · 33 comments What's the reality of starting an eCommerce business right now? r/ecommerce • 1mo ago What's the reality of starting an eCommerce business
right now? 95 upvotes · 248 comments Does this place exist? r/SLO • 5d ago Does this place exist? r/SLO - Does this place exist? 111 upvotes · 66 comments Study: Consumers
influenced by online reviews driven more by number of reviewers than ratings r/psychology • 9y ago Study: Consumers influenced by online reviews driven more by number of reviewers
than ratings r/psychology - Study: Consumers influenced by online reviews driven more by number of reviewers than ratings fastcodesign 55 upvotes · 7 comments SLO Fish Co opening
in the old Rambling Spirits location r/SLO • 3d ago SLO Fish Co opening in the old Rambling Spirits location r/SLO - SLO Fish Co opening in the old Rambling Spirits location 100
upvotes · 25 comments CPQ Quoting agent success stories? r/salesforce • 8mo ago CPQ Quoting agent success stories? 4 upvotes · 12 comments 7 psychology tricks that explain why
people click, buy, or engage (worth knowing if you sell anything online) r/SaaS • 9mo ago 7 psychology tricks that explain why people click, buy, or engage (worth knowing if you
