thanks to the folks that gave you permission to use the images that you guys are seeing in here. And uh yeah, 1:06:22 this is uh this is something I mean we I don't know if we I
think we may have talked about it, but my original idea 1:06:28 was I thought it would be really cool to do something with John one day and obviously we didn't get on that fast
enough. Um uh within a couple months he 1:06:35 he and you told me he was not particularly well at the time and and Yeah, he was. Yeah. So anyway, well, cool. Well, 1:06:43
Richard, thank you so much for coming on. This has been absolutely wonderful. Been a pleasure. Thank you. 1:06:48 Thank you. So, thank you, Richard, for coming on and making this
happen. And like I mentioned, John just had this 1:06:54 enormous influence on me, even though we never met. That is hard for me to describe sometimes, but he's one of 1:07:00
those photographers that everything that I do in photography, even though I'm working digitally today, I'm always 1:07:05 thinking about John's approach. I think the methods, even
though John was working in a dark room, they're still 1:07:11 universal when we get into the modern age. And if you guys are interested, I'll put some links to John stuff below.
There's a really good video interview 1:07:17 that somebody did. And um yeah, anyway, if you have any questions or comments, leave them. And I will catch you guys in 1:07:23 the
next video. Until then, later. All From The Art of Photography Camera lens This website uses cookies We use cookies to personalise content and ads, to provide social media features
and to analyse our traffic. We also share information about your use of our site with our social media, advertising and analytics partners who may combine it with other information
that you’ve provided to them or that they’ve collected from your use of their services. Consent Selection Necessary Preferences Statistics Marketing Show details All about
photo.com: photo contests, photography exhibitions, galleries, photographers, books, schools and venues. Photo Contests Showroom Events Photographers Articles Publications Gear
Venues Services Call for Entries Win a Solo Exhibition in June 2026 + An Exclusive Interview! HomeAll Photo ArticlesArticles / Best-OfsTop10: Most Famous Photographers of All time
Top10: Most Famous Photographers of All time Posted on August 05, 2013 - By Editor Share Who are the most famous photographers of all time? Hard to say but here is a top 10 with a
list of incredible masters of photography. Even if you don't know a lot about photography you have certainly heard of them. The choice we made was not based on the beauty of the
work but on the popularity of the photographers and their images. 12345678910 Ansel Adams (American 1902-1984) Ansel Adams (American 1902-1984) Ansel Easton Adams was an American
photographer and environmentalist, best known for his black-and-white photographs of the American West, especially in Yosemite National Park. With Fred Archer, Adams developed the
Zone System as a way to determine proper exposure and adjust the contrast of the final print. The resulting clarity and depth characterized his photographs and the work of those to
whom he taught the system. Adams primarily used large-format cameras despite their size, weight, setup time, and film cost, because their high resolution helped ensure sharpness in
his images. Adams founded the Group f/64 along with fellow photographers Willard Van Dyke and Edward Weston. Adams's photographs are reproduced on calendars, posters, and in books,
making his photographs widely distributed. Ansel Adams Robert Capa (American 1913-1954) Robert Capa (American 1913-1954) On 3 December 1938 Picture Post introduced 'The Greatest
War Photographer in the World: Robert Capa' with a spread of 26 photographs taken during the Spanish Civil War. But the 'greatest war photographer' hated war. Born Andre Friedmann
to Jewish parents in Budapest in 1913, he studied political science at the Deutsche Hochschule für Politik in Berlin. Driven out of the country by the threat of a Nazi regime, he
settled in Paris in 1933. He was represented by Alliance Photo and met the journalist and photographer Gerda Taro. Together, they invented the 'famous' American photographer Robert
Capa and began to sell his prints under that name. He met Pablo Picasso and Ernest Hemingway, and formed friendships with fellow photographers David 'Chim' Seymour and Henri
Cartier-Bresson. From 1936 onwards, Capa's coverage of the Spanish Civil War appeared regularly. His picture of a Loyalist soldier who had just been fatally wounded earned him his
international reputation and became a powerful symbol of war. After his companion, Gerda Taro, was killed in Spain, Capa travelled to China in 1938 and emigrated to New York a year
later. As a correspondent in Europe, he photographed the Second World War, covering the landing of American troops on Omaha beach on D-Day, the liberation of Paris and the Battle
of the Bulge. In 1947 Capa founded Magnum Photos with Henri Cartier-Bresson, David Seymour, George Rodger and William Vandivert. On 25 May 1954 he was photographing for Life in
Thai-Binh, Indochina, when he stepped on a landmine and was killed. The French army awarded him the Croix de Guerre with Palm post-humously. The Robert Capa Gold Medal Award was
established in 1955 to reward exceptional professional merit. Robert Capa Henri Cartier Bresson (French 1908-2004) Henri Cartier Bresson (French 1908-2004) Born in Chanteloup,
Seine-et-Marne, Henri Cartier-Bresson developed a strong fascination with painting early on, and particularly with Surrealism. In 1932, after spending a year in the Ivory Coast, he
discovered the Leica - his camera of choice thereafter - and began a life-long passion for photography. In 1933 he had his first exhibition at the Julien Levy Gallery in New York.
He later made films with Jean Renoir. Taken prisoner of war in 1940, he escaped on his third attempt in 1943 and subsequently joined an underground organization to assist prisoners
and escapees. In 1945 he photographed the liberation of Paris with a group of professional journalists and then filmed the documentary Le Retour (The Return). In 1947, with Robert
Capa, George Rodger, David 'Chim' Seymour and William Vandivert, he founded Magnum Photos. After three years spent travelling in the East, in 1952 he returned to Europe, where he
published his first book, Images à la Sauvette (published in English as The Decisive Moment). He explained his approach to photography in these terms, '"For me the camera is a
sketch book, an instrument of intuition and spontaneity, the master of the instant which, in visual terms, questions and decides simultaneously. It is by economy of means that one
arrives at simplicity of expression." From 1968 he began to curtail his photographic activities, preferring to concentrate on drawing and painting. In 2003, with his wife and
daughter, he created the Fondation Henri Cartier-Bresson in Paris for the preservation of his work. Cartier-Bresson received an extraordinary number of prizes, awards and honorary
doctorates. He died at his home in Provence on 3 August 2004, a few weeks short of his 96th birthday. Henri Cartier Bresson Man Ray (American 1890-1976) Man Ray (American
1890-1976) Born in Philadelphia, Emmanuel Radnitsky grew up in New Jersey and became a commercial artist in New York in the 1910s. He began to sign his name Man Ray in 1912,
although his family did not change its surname to Ray until the 1920s. He initially taught himself photography in order to reproduce his own works of art, which included paintings
and mixed media. In 1921 he moved to Paris and set up a photography studio to support himself. There he began to make photograms, which he called "Rayographs." In the 1920s, he
also began making moving pictures. Man Ray's four completed films--Return to Reason, Emak Bakia, Starfish, and Mystery of the Chateau--were all highly creative, non-narrative
explorations of the possibilities of the medium. Shortly before World War II, Man Ray returned to the United States and settled in Los Angeles from 1940 until 1951. He was
disappointed that he was recognized only for his photography in America and not for the filmmaking, painting, sculpture, and other media in which he worked. In 1951 Man Ray
returned to Paris. He concentrated primarily on painting until his death in 1976. André Kertész Robert Frank (American 1924) Robert Frank (American 1924) Robert Frank is one of the
most acclaimed photographers of the 20th century. His seminal book, The Americans, is arguably the most influential publication of photography among artists that followed. In 2009,
a major substantial touring monographic exhibition and scholarly catalogue organized by Sarah Greenough made stops at the National Gallery of Art, Metropolitan Museum of Art, and
the San Francisco Museum of Modern Art. Looking In: Robert Frank's The Americans coincides with the 50th anniversary of the publication of The Americans, first released in 1958 by
Parisian publisher Robert Delpire, and in 1959 by Grove Press, which made the book available to a wider audience. Robert Frank Walker Evans (American 1903-1975) Walker Evans
(American 1903-1975) Walker Evans is one of the most influential artists of the twentieth century. His elegant, crystal-clear photographs and articulate publications have inspired
several generations of artists, from Helen Levitt and Robert Frank to Diane Arbus, Lee Friedlander, and Bernd and Hilla Becher. The progenitor of the documentary tradition in
American photography, Evans had the extraordinary ability to see the present as if it were already the past, and to translate that knowledge and historically inflected vision into
an enduring art. His principal subject was the vernacular-the indigenous expressions of a people found in roadside stands, cheap cafés (1971.646.35), advertisements (1987.1100.59),
simple bedrooms, and small-town main streets. For fifty years, from the late 1920s to the early 1970s, Evans recorded the American scene with the nuance of a poet and the precision
of a surgeon, creating an encyclopedic visual catalogue of modern America in the making. Walker Evans Edward Henry Weston (American 1886-1958) Edward Henry Weston (American
1886-1958) Edward Henry Weston was a 20th century American photographer. He has been called "one of the most innovative and influential American photographers..." and "one of the
masters of 20th century photography."Over the course of his forty-year career Weston photographed an increasingly expansive set of subjects, including landscapes, still lifes,
nudes, portraits, genre scenes and even whimsical parodies. It is said that he developed a "quintessentially American, and specially Californian, approach to modern
photography"because of his focus on the people and places of the American West. In 1937 Weston was the first photographer to receive a Guggenheim Fellowship, and over the next two
years he produced nearly 1,400 negatives using his 8 × 10 view camera. Some of his most famous photographs were taken of the trees and rocks at Point Lobos, California, near where
he lived for many years. Weston was born in Chicago and moved to California when he was 21. He knew he wanted to be a photographer from an early age, and initially his work was
typical of the soft focus pictorialism that was popular at the time. Within a few years, however, he abandoned that style and went on to be one of the foremost champions of highly
detailed photographic images. In 1947 he was diagnosed with Parkinson's disease and he stopped photographing soon thereafter. He spent the remaining ten years of his life
overseeing the printing of more than 1,000 of his most famous images. Edward Henry Weston Jacques Henri Lartigue (French 1894-1986) Jacques Henri Lartigue (French 1894-1986)
Jacques Henri Lartigue is 69 years old in 1963 when he first presents a selection of his many photographs taken throughout his life in New York's MoMa. That same year there is a
photo spread of his work in the famous Life Magazine issue which commemorates the death of John Fitzgerald Kennedy, and which is publicized worldwide. To his great surprise,
Lartigue becomes, overnight, one of the renowned photographers of the twentieth century. Jacques learns about photography from his father as early as the year 1900. Henri Lartigue
rewards Jacques's enthusiasm by buying him his first camera when he is 8 years old. Thus begins the endless coverage of his childhood, including automobile outings, family holidays
and especially his older brother Maurice's (nicknamed Zissou) inventions. Both brothers are fascinated by cars, aviation, and all sports with increasing popularity at the time.
Jacques's camera freezes each moment. As an adult he continues to attend sporting events and to take part in elite sports such as skiing, skating, tennis and golf. However, ever
mindful of the passage of time, photography is not quite enough to capture his childhood memories. A snapshot cannot encompass all there is to say and to remember. He thus begins
keeping a journal and will continue to do so his whole life. Furthermore, as if to engage in a more renowned activity, he takes up drawing and painting. In 1915 he briefly attends
the Julian Academy and thus painting becomes and remains his main professional activity. From 1922 on he exhibits his work in shows in Paris and in the south of France. In the
meantime, in 1919, Jacques marries Madeleine Messager, the daughter of the composer André Messager, and their son Dani is born in 1921. Jacques and Madeleine get a divorce in 1931.
He revels in high society and luxury until the beginning of the 1930's until the decline of the Lartigue fortune forces him to search for other sources of income. He refuses
however to take on a steady job and thus lose his freedom, and so he scarcely gets by with his painting during the 30's and 40's. In the beginning of the 1950's and not in
accordance with the legend in which he is a complete unknown, his work as a photographer is noticed. He nevertheless continues to paint. He embarks on a cargo ship to Los Angeles
in 1962 with his third wife Florette. In a roundabout way, they stop on the East Coast and meet Charles Rado of the Rapho Agency who in turn contacts John Szwarkoski, MoMa's
photography department young curator. There is all-around enthusiasm. The first retrospective of his work is held in Paris' "Musée des Arts Décoratifs" in 1975. One year earlier,
Lartigue was commissioned by the President of France Valéry Giscard d'Estaing to shoot an official portrait photograph. In 1979 the Donation Agreement is signed and Lartigue
becomes the first living French photographer to donate his work to the nation. He authorizes the Association des Amis de Jacques Henri Lartigue to preserve and promote the fund. In
1980, his dream of having his own museum comes true with the Grand Palais' exhibit "Bonjour Monsieur Lartigue". He continued his work as a photographer, painter and writer until
his death in Nice on September 12th 1986. He was 92 years old. He left us with more than 100 000 snapshots, 7 000 pages of diary, 1 500 paintings. Jacques Henri Lartigue Robert
Doisneau (French 1912-1994) Robert Doisneau (French 1912-1994) During his long career, photographer Robert Doisneau documented the French people. His camera sought the surreal in
everyday life; the amusing juxtaposition, the faibles of human nature, all captured by an artist who was charmed by his subjects. Robert Doisneau (1912-1994) was born in Gentilly,
France. He studied lithography, but soon turned to photography. He worked for Renault as an industrial and advertising photographer until 1939. During the war he worked for the
resistance forging documents. In 1948, he began work for French Vogue, but his heart was in photojournalism, and the streets of Paris, to which he returned in 1951. Doisneau has
been the subject of major retrospectives at the bibliotheque National in Paris, the Art Institute of Chicago, and the George Eastman House in Rochester, NY. His photographs have
become widely recognized and beloved in the history of photography. Robert Doisneau Dorothea Lange (American 1895-1965) Dorothea Lange (American 1895-1965) Dorothea Lange was an
American documentary photographer, who studied photography at Columbia University and worked as an assistant to Arnold Genthe before beginning a photographic trip around the world
in 1918. When she ran out of funds in San Francisco, she remained, opened a photographic studio, and during the early 1930s began photographing homeless rural people flooding into
the city from the Dust Bowl exodus. Her photographs brought her to the attention of Paul Taylor, an economist at California University, who hired her to create a documentary record
to accompany his report on agricultural conditions for the California State Relief Administration, and subsequently married her. When Roy Stryker saw these images, he hired her as
a staff photographer for the Farm Security Administration (FSA), for which she worked sporadically as Stryker's budget allowed 1935-9. During this period, she made many of her
best-known photographs, including the image known as Migrant Mother (1936). She later also photographed for the San Francisco branch of the Office of War Information, 1943-5,
recording the internment of Japanese-Americans and the founding of the United Nations. In 1954-5 she was a photographer for Life magazine, afterwards travelling extensively and
producing photographic essays on Ireland, Egypt, and Asia. Dorothea Lange Stay up-to-date with call for entries, deadlines and other news about exhibitions, galleries,
publications, & special events. Enter your email address... Advertisement AAP Magazine #58 B&W Win a Solo Exhibition in June AAP Magazine #58 B&W Call for Entries AAP Magazine #58
B&W Publish your work in our printed magazine and win $1,000 cash prizes © Carl Young Selected Books Martin Parr: The Last Resort: 40 Years On Martin Parr: The Last Resort: 40
Years On Martin Parr Nathalie Rubens: Seasons of Time Nathalie Rubens: Seasons of Time Nathalie Rubens Jon McCormack: Patterns: Art of the Natural World Jon McCormack: Patterns:
Art of the Natural World Jon McCormack Albert Watson: Kaos Albert Watson: Kaos Albert Watson Call for Entries Win A Solo Exhibition in June Get International Exposure and Connect
with Industry Insiders © Damien Aubin Explore All About Photo Search for... All About Photo About Us Contact Us Link Back Press Blog Newsletter Terms of Use Privacy Policy
Competitions All About Photo Competitions Our Jurors All Photo Contests Open Photo Contests Amateur Photo Contests Professional Photo Contests Portfolio Reviews Photo Competition
News Artists Photographers A-Z Masters of Photography Modern Photographers Rising Photographers Articles Interviews Inspirational Photography Exhibitions Photography Festivals
Photo Fairs Photo Museums Galleries & Centers Photographer Monographs Technique Books History of Photography Miscellaneous Paper Magazines Online Magazines Resources Schools and
Classes Photography Agencies Equipment Rentals Studio Rentals Photo Labs Camera Repairs Framing Stores Photo Tips & Tools Photo Gear © 2026 © All-About-Photo.com, All Rights
Reserved • Photographs © the Respective Artists, All Rights Reserved. Mike Wardynski Photography The Collection Prints & Framing Print Mockups Workshops & Lessons Articles News
Contact About Search Exhibitions Articles The Best And Most Influential Photographers Of All Time Photography is so much more than just pressing a button. The greatest
photographers spend their entire lives mastering and perfecting their craft. A Great photograph is one that makes a lasting impression on those who view it. When executed with
great care, photography can evoke deep emotions and tell complex stories. The following is a list of some of the best and most influential photographers of all time. Their work is
extraordinary and their discipline impeccable. In no particular order, I present to you some of the greatest photographers the world has ever known. Don't forget to check out my
fine art photography gallery after you read this article. Elliot Erwitt Website "It's about reacting to what you see, hopefully without preconception. You can find pictures
anywhere. It's simply a matter of noticing things and organizing them. You just have to care about what's around you and have a concern with humanity and the human comedy"
elliott-swrwitt-the-kiss Photo by Elliot Erwitt It is without a doubt that Elliot Erwitt is one of the greatest photographers to ever pick up a camera. His work is a commentary on
what it means to be human. His photographs capture life’s ironic, comedic and sometimes absurd moments in a way that is both brilliant and surprising. Erwitt’s images are perfect
slivers of time that are spontaneous yet very deliberately and carefully composed. With a particular fondness for dogs, Elliot published not one, but four books on canines. Elliot
Erwitt was born in Paris France in 1928 and emigrated to the United States in 1939. As a teenager in Los Angeles California, Elliot became interested in photography and began
working in a commercial darkroom before enrolling in Los Angeles City College where he would further his study of the craft. In 1951 he was drafted by the US military and worked as
a photographer while being stationed in Germany and France. In 1953 Erwitt joined Magnum Photos and became president of the organization for three years in the 1960’s. Erwitt
worked as a freelance photographer for publications such as Collier’s, Look, LIFE and Holiday. Between the years of 1972 and 2018 Erwitt released 26 photographic books. If you’d
like to explore Elliot Erwitt’s work, I highly recommend his books “Personal Best” and “Personal Exposures”. Steve McCurry Website "It’s important for you to spend your time
photographing things that matter to you. You need to understand the things that have meaning to you, and not what others think is important for you." Steve McCurry Afghan Girl
Photo by Steve McCurry With a career spanning over four decades, Steve McCurry has captured some of the most iconic images of humanity. His striking imagery often involves his
subject staring directly into the camera’s lens with a piercing gaze. Rich yet natural colors complement his scenes and help tell the story of the people within them. McCurry’s
photographs exhibit the rich diversity of the human race across the globe. When you look at a Steve McCurry photograph, you feel as if you are standing where the image was taken.
It’s almost as if you could have a conversation with the person on the other side of the lens. When photography feels as touching as McCurry’s, the world becomes a little smaller
and the viewer begins to understand the beauty in diversity. It is impossible not to feel a connection when observing his work and because of that, he is one of the greatest
photographers of all time. Born in Philadelphia Pennsylvania, Steve gained an interest in photography when he began taking images for the Penn State newspaper. After College Steve
traveled to India to document the country with his camera. In May of 1979 Steve crossed over into Pakistan where he met some Afghan refugees who asked him to document the civil war
that was underway in their homeland. The refugees helped smuggle him into Afghanistan where he spent several months living with and documenting the Majahideen fighters who were
organizing to resist a coup takeover that took place the year before. Due to the closed borders, Steve’s images were some of the first to show the brutality of the soviet backed
war. His early images paved the way for a photojournalism career that would land his work on the cover of National Geographic multiple times. In 1985, his cover image “Afgan Girl”
was published and has become known as the most recognized image in the magazine’s history. McCurry has published 21 books over the course of 35 years. These books contain some of
the most iconic photos ever taken. Popular books include Steve McCurry: A Life in Pictures, Steve McCurry: The Iconic Photographs and In Search of Elsewhere: Unseen Images. Paul
Nicklen Website “Gear is the least important part of the equation. Having a vision and being able to articulate an idea visually are much more important.” Paul Nicklen polar bear
Photo by Paul Nicklen Paul Nicklen is one of the hardest working wildlife photographers on the planet. His close proximity imagery shows nature in a way that is rarely seen. The
majority of Paul’s images come from the polar regions where he spends much of his time under the water photographing Leopard Seals, whales, penguins and other marine life. Nicklen
has had eleven stories published in National Geographic and opened up the Paul Nicklen Gallery in Soho New York. Paul is not only an incredible photographer but he is also a
champion of the natural world and a member of the International League of Conservation Photographers. In 2017 Nicklen and his wife Cristina Mittermeier founded Sea Legacy with a
mission to preserve the ocean while educating the public about how human impact is affecting the environment and all of the living things within it. I highly recommend his books
“Born to Ice” and “Polar Obsession” Don McCullin Website “Photography for me is not looking, it’s feeling. If you can’t feel what you’re looking at, then you’re never going to get
others to feel anything when they look at your pictures.” Don-McCullin-Bum Photo by Don McCullin Don McCullin is one of the most brilliant social photographers of the 20th and 21st
centuries. He is best known for his war images and for his work documenting the poverty of London’s East side. McCullin’s work exhibits masterful compositions that effectively tell
a narrative. His photographs from war and poverty torn countries are as technically good as they are heart-breaking. It is impossible not to feel something when looking at his work
which is why he is such an effective photographer. His war scenes are as truthfully dark as war itself. He has been shot and badly wounded in Cambodia, imprisoned in Uganda,
expelled from Vietnam and had a bounty on his head in Lebanon. Later in life Don mostly focused on less violent subjects including documenting the English countryside and producing
elegant still life photographs. In 2017 McCullin was knighted by the Queen of England for his service to Photography. The Books Don McCullin and In England showcase McCullins most
celebrated images and are a great addition to any collection. Edward S. Curtis "The passing of every old man or woman means the passing of some tradition, some knowledge of sacred
rites possessed by no other...consequently the information that is to be gathered, for the benefit of future generations, respecting the mode of life of one of the great races of
mankind, must be collected at once or the opportunity will be lost for all time." Famous Photographers Edward S. Curtis Photo by Edward S. Curtis Edward S. Curtis is responsible
for creating the most iconic collection of images ever taken of Native Americans. In 1895 Curtis met Princess Angeline who was the daughter of Chief Sealth of Seattle. In 1898
three of his images were chosen to be exhibited by The National Photographic Society in which his photo “Homeward” won the grand prize. On one of Curtis’s photography trip to Mount
Rainier, he stumbled upon a group of lost scientists. Curtis helped guide them to safely and was as the official photographer of the Harriman Alaska Expedition in 1899. Afterward,
Curtis was invited to document the indigenous people of the Blackfoot Confederacy in 1900. In 1906, Curtis received $75,000 from J.P. Morgan to produce a 20-volume series of books
compiled of 1,500 photographs on the Native Americans and their traditional way of life. The series was called “The North American Indian”. The money that Curtis received came with
stipulations and could not be used for writing, editing or the production of the books. Curtis did not receive a salary for the project that lasted 20 years. As repayment for the
loan, J.P. Morgan was to receive twenty five 20-volume sets of the books and 500 original prints. During the course of the project Edward Curtis took over 40,000 photographs of
over 80 Native American tribes. Curtis captured the most iconic photos ever taken of the indigenous people of the United States, yet he struggled financially throughout most of his
career. In 1928 Curtis was desperate for money and sold the rights to his project to J.P. Morgan. The last volume of “The Native American Indian” was published in 1930. In 1935,
the Morgan estate sold the rights to the North American Indian and any remaining unpublished images to the Charles E. Lauriat Company for $1,000 plus a percentage of future
royalties. Curtis was largely forgotten after his death but interest in his work began to reappear in the 1970s and continues to this day. Popular books include: The North American
Indian: The Complete Portfolios, Stand in the Light: Native Voices Illuminated by Edward S. Curtis and Edward S. Curtis: The Women Nick Brandt Website "Your actions, no matter how
small, can energize and focus you. Those of us who care must continue to do our damnedest to minimize the damage as best we can. To keep on fighting for all in the here and now,
and for those beings that come after us." Nick Brandt - Alice, Stanley and Najin, Kenya 2020, from The Day May Break: Chapter One. © Nick Brandt Alice, Stanley and Najin, Kenya
2020, from The Day May Break: Chapter One. © Nick Brandt Nick Brandt has created some of the most important photographs of the 21st century. His climate-based work is deeply
thought provoking, compositionally striking and deeply poetic. Born in 1964 in the UK, his work initially focused on the rapidly disappearing natural world due to environmental
destruction, climate change and human actions. In recent years, his photographic series' have focused on the growing impacts of climate breakdown for humans. In 2021 Brandt began
an ongoing global series called “The Day May Break”. The series portrays people and animals together in a smoke filled environment causing the viewer to reflect on the real-life
consequences of climate change. Brandt channels his outrage into quiet determination, resulting in a portrait of humanity at a critical moment in the Anthropocene. In 2023, Brandt
released “SINK / RISE”. The series was photographed in Fiji and is the third chapter of “The Day My Break”. “SINK / RISE” focuses on South Pacific Islanders impacted by rising
oceans from climate change. The series is an intimate collection of people photographed underwater in the ocean. The people are representatives of the many people whose homes, land
and livelihoods will be lost in the coming decades due to sea rise. All of Nick’s photographs are shot in camera. He does not use photoshop or ai to place people and animals
together. Nick Brandt has an incredible collection of beautifully produced & signed photography books available for purchase on his website. Recommended books include The Day May
Break: Chapter One, This Empty World & Across The Ravaged Land. Jerry Uelsmann Website “Let us not be afraid to allow for “post-visualization.” By post-visualization I refer to the
willingness on the part of the photographer to re-visualize the final image at any point in the entire photographic process.” Jerry-Uelsmann10-Door-way-face- Photo By Jerry
Uelsmann Jerry Uelsmann was truly a photographer ahead of his time. When we think of image manipulation we often think of digital images and Photoshop, but Jerry was combining
multiple images together in the darkroom long before the days of computer editing. Jerry is known for his surreal and dreamlike gelatin-silver print photomontages. His photographs
combine incredible darkroom precision with unbridled creativity that results in highly captivating fine art prints Uelsmann spent his entire professional life dedicated to the
arts. In 1960 he began teaching photography at the University of Florida in Gainesville and in 1974 he became a graduate research professor at the same university. If you like to
see more of Jerry’s incredible images check out his book Uelsmann Untitled: A Retrospective. Joal Sartore Website “The most memorable photos are layered, in good light, and have
something really interesting going on in them. If you can get all three elements into a single frame, now you're talking.” Joal Sartore Photo Ark Photo by Joal Sartore Joal
Sartore’s specialty is documenting endangered species and landscapes across the world. He is a master of animal portraiture which can be seen in his 25 year project The Photo Ark.
The Photo Ark is a quest to document every single living species living in zoos and wildlife refugees across the globe. Joal photographs most of the animals in a studio setting
with strobes just as any portrait photographer would do so in one of their shoots. The focus of his project is to educate the public about wildlife and the threats that it faces.
His animal portraits are absolutely remarkable. In addition to photography, Joal is a conservationist, author, speaker and teacher. He is a National Geographic photographer with 40
stories published in the magazine. Joal sells a wide variety of books including The Photo Ark book on his website and can be purchased here. Dorothea Lange “To know ahead of time
what you're looking for means you're then only photographing your own preconceptions, which is very limiting, and often false.” Dorthea-Lang-Migrant-Mother-1936 Photo by Dorothea
Lange Dorothea Lange is best known for her work for the Farm Security Administration during the great depression. Lange is important in photographic history because her work
influenced the development of documentary photography. Throughout the course of her career she documented important social issues throughout the United States including the forced
removal of Japanese Americans by the federal government during World War II. At the time, the government impounded most of Lang’s work of the internment process. Today her
photography of the evacuations and interments are available in the National Archives as well as in her book Impounded: Dorothea Lange and the Censored Images of Japanese American
Internment. If you like a definitive book that spans Lang’s career read Dorothea Lange: Words & Pictures Platon Website “I never think about a shoot before I do it. Because there's
no formula for people. What I try to do is to strip everything away rather than go in with preconceived notions. If I do that, I might miss a gem or a jewel that the person is
offering me.” platon-spike-lee Photo by Platon Platon is famous for his close up and intimate portraiture with clean backgrounds. He often shoots just slightly below eye level to
give his subjects a dominating look. Platon’s work includes some of the world’s most famous and prominent people. His subjects span a gamut of backgrounds from world leaders and
business people to musicians and movie stars. Some of his most notable portraits include Barack Obama, Stephen Hawking, Spike Lee, Vladimir Putin and Muammar Gaddafi. Time Magazine
has a really great article titled The Craziest Man in the Room about Platon’s experience photographing one of the world’s most dangerous dictators. Over the years, Platon has
produced images for Rolling Stone, the New York Times Magazine, Vanity Fair, Esquire, GQ and the New Yorker. Platon’s most recent work has been centered around civil and human
rights. In 2009 he teamed up with the organization Human Rights Watch to help celebrate those who stand up for equal rights and justice in countries that suppress those freedoms.
In 2013 Platon founded a non-profit called The People’s Portfolio. The organization's mission is to enlist the public to build support for human rights around the world. Platon has
released four books on his work including Platon’s Republic, Power, and Service, A book that highlights the men and Women in the US military. Gordon Parks Website “I feel it is the
heart, not the eye, that should determine the content of the photograph. What the eye sees is its own. What the heart can perceive is a very different matter.”
Gordon-Parks-black-and-white-dolls Photo by Gordon Parks Gordon Parks is one of the most important photographers of the 20th century and was the first African American photographer
to be hired by Life Magazine. Even though Parks was completely self taught, he received limited success as soon as he picked up the camera. His work was praised by the clerks who
developed his first roll of film and encouraged him to seek out a fashion shoot. Parks went on to build a portrait business in Chicago while he simultaneously began to document the
experience of African Americans. This work lead him to win the Julius Rosenwald Fellowship in 1942 that would ultimately land him a job for the Farm Security Administration (FSA)
in Washington, D.C. and later, the Office of War Information (OWI). Parks most important work consistently explored the social and economic impact of poverty, racism, and other
forms of discrimination in the US. Outside of photography Parks was a musician, writer, painter, poet and filmmaker. In 1969,Parks became the first African American to write and
direct a Hollywood feature film titled The Learning Tree. In 1971, Park released the critically acclaimed film Shaft. Parks continued to work as a documentary and commercial
photographer until his death in 2006. Books by Gordon Parks include Gordon Parks: The New Tide: Early Work 1940–1950 and Gordon Parks: The Atmosphere of Crime, 1957 Annie Leibovitz
“The camera makes you forget you're there. It's not like you are hiding but you forget, you are just looking so much.” Anie-leibovitz-Mick-Jagger Photo by Annie Leibovitz Annie
Leibovitz is one of the best known portrait photographers of the 20th and 21st centuries. She is most famous for her celebrity portraiture which includes Mick Jagger, Angelina
Jolie and the Queen of England. Her polaroid portrait of John Lennon and Yoko Ono was taken five hours before John Lennon was murdered. That photograph is Rolling Stone's most
famous cover photo. The Library of Congress declared her a living legend and she became the first woman to have an exhibition in Washington’s National Portrait Gallery. Leibovitz
studied painting at the San Francisco Art Institute but switched her major to photography after taking her first photography course. In 1973 Leibovitz landed a job as a staff
photographer for Rolling Stone magazine where she would photograph countless celebrities and help define the magazine's look for ten years. In 1975 she went on tour with The
Rolling Stones as their concert photographer where she produced one of her most famous portraits of Mick Jagger in an elevator. Leibovitz landed a gig with Vanity Fair Magazine in
1983 where she worked as a photographer until 2000. Today she continues to work as a portrait photographer and educator. Recommended books by Leibovitz include Annie Leibovitz. The
Early Years, 1970–1983 and Photographs Annie Leibovitz 1970 -1990 Phillipe Helmsman Website “I never was an apprentice or assistant to another photographer. Everything that I know
I learned by trial and error and by a lot of experimenting. I consider every assignment as a problem and my picture as its solution. I don’t belong to photographers who shoot out
of instinct. A lot of thinking goes into my taking--or should I say making of -- pictures” Philippe-halsman salvidor dali-floating Photo by Phillipe Helmsman Creative is an
understatement when describing Phillipe Helmsman’s work. He would go through great length to create photographs and concepts that had never been seen before. His concepts often
