you may like I’m struggling to price my photography without ripping people off or myself — thoughts? r/AskPhotography • 4mo ago I’m struggling to price my photography without
ripping people off or myself — thoughts? r/AskPhotography - I’m struggling to price my photography without ripping people off or myself — thoughts? 5 56 upvotes · 80 comments
u/theskinnypop avatar theskinnypop • Promoted SKINNYPOP Popcorn. Popular for a reason. Grab yours today. Thumbnail image: SKINNYPOP Popcorn. Popular for a reason. Grab yours today.
costco.com Shop Now Should i start using post processing? r/AskPhotography • 8d ago Should i start using post processing? r/AskPhotography - Should i start using post processing? 8
172 upvotes · 87 comments What is the best camera to buy for starting out portrait photographer? r/AskPhotography • 6mo ago What is the best camera to buy for starting out portrait
photographer? 5 upvotes · 28 comments Why am I bad at taking portraits? r/AskPhotography • 4mo ago Why am I bad at taking portraits? 54 upvotes · 58 comments They’re fine, but how
to make my portraits look professional? r/AskPhotography • 8mo ago They’re fine, but how to make my portraits look professional? r/AskPhotography - They’re fine, but how to make my
portraits look professional? 4 349 upvotes · 166 comments Photographers - give me your best advice from experience? r/AskPhotography • 3mo ago Photographers - give me your best
advice from experience? 55 upvotes · 208 comments Anybody here do professional photography as a side-gig? r/AskPhotography • 4mo ago Anybody here do professional photography as a
side-gig? 9 upvotes · 40 comments Photo I assignment? r/AskPhotography • 3mo ago Photo I assignment? r/AskPhotography - Photo I assignment? 3 78 upvotes · 16 comments Is anyone
else frustrated with the current state of photography online? r/AskPhotography • 11d ago Is anyone else frustrated with the current state of photography online? 88 upvotes · 58
comments How do I edit portraits like this? r/AskPhotography • 6mo ago How do I edit portraits like this? r/AskPhotography - How do I edit portraits like this? 5 253 upvotes · 92
comments Does anyone have any ideas of how I can be charitable with my photography services? r/AskPhotography • 2mo ago Does anyone have any ideas of how I can be charitable with
my photography services? 33 upvotes · 45 comments Looking for some advice on how to get back into photography. Did it for 7 years and been out of it since 2022. Feeling stuck?
r/AskPhotography • 8mo ago Looking for some advice on how to get back into photography. Did it for 7 years and been out of it since 2022. Feeling stuck? r/AskPhotography - Looking
for some advice on how to get back into photography. Did it for 7 years and been out of it since 2022. Feeling stuck? 3 34 upvotes · 9 comments How to start my photography journey?
r/AskPhotography • 2mo ago How to start my photography journey? r/AskPhotography - How to start my photography journey? 3 8 upvotes · 12 comments How do I begin my journey into
Photography? r/AskPhotography • 3mo ago How do I begin my journey into Photography? 2 upvotes · 31 comments Pro Photographers help me take self portraits like this? I have no idea
don’t what I’m doing. r/AskPhotography • 3mo ago Pro Photographers help me take self portraits like this? I have no idea don’t what I’m doing. r/AskPhotography - Pro Photographers
help me take self portraits like this? I have no idea don’t what I’m doing. 7 comments How can I keep my portraits more consistent in different lighting conditions?
r/AskPhotography • 7mo ago How can I keep my portraits more consistent in different lighting conditions? r/AskPhotography - How can I keep my portraits more consistent in different
lighting conditions? 2 49 upvotes · 32 comments dying to get into photography but broke? r/AskPhotography • 11d ago dying to get into photography but broke? 62 comments Does anyone
else struggle to get into photography when you’re with other people? r/AskPhotography • 3mo ago Does anyone else struggle to get into photography when you’re with other people? 35
upvotes · 17 comments How to take better portraits and candid shots? Your thought process when shooting r/AskPhotography • 6mo ago How to take better portraits and candid shots?
Your thought process when shooting 12 upvotes · 38 comments Wanting to get into flash / lighting for portraits, feeling overwhelmed - where to start? r/AskPhotography • 5mo ago
Wanting to get into flash / lighting for portraits, feeling overwhelmed - where to start? 6 upvotes · 18 comments Wanting to get into Portrait Photography r/photocritique • 4mo ago
Wanting to get into Portrait Photography r/photocritique - Wanting to get into Portrait Photography 60 upvotes · 30 comments What is your opinion on editing photos so they don't
really look like what you shot? r/AskPhotography • 4mo ago What is your opinion on editing photos so they don't really look like what you shot? 25 upvotes · 60 comments What's the
consensus on good overall amount of mp and what is good for portraits? r/AskPhotography • 9mo ago What's the consensus on good overall amount of mp and what is good for portraits?
4 upvotes · 37 comments How to improve portraits? r/AskPhotography • 9mo ago How to improve portraits? r/AskPhotography - How to improve portraits? 5 1K upvotes · 110 comments
Beginner photographer here, any tips for starting a photography gig? r/AskPhotography • 1mo ago Beginner photographer here, any tips for starting a photography gig?
r/AskPhotography - Beginner photographer here, any tips for starting a photography gig? 6 133 upvotes · 81 comments Community Info Section r/AskPhotography Join Photography
community ready to help. Whether you're a seasoned professional or just starting out, this subreddit is the perfect place to ask questions, seek advice, and engage in discussions
about all things photography. We're here to foster a supportive and knowledgeable community that shares a passion for capturing the world through the lens. If you're new to
photography or have a burning question, don't hesitate to make a post! Our community is filled with experienced photographers who are eager to help. Show more Public Reddit Rules
Privacy Policy User Agreement Your Privacy Choices Accessibility Reddit, Inc. © 2026. All rights reserved. Collapse Navigation Skip to main content Who are the best "current"
portrait photographers who do little to no post processing? : r/photography r/photography Search in r/photography Get App Log In Expand user menu Skip to NavigationSkip to Right
Sidebar Back Go to photography r/photography • 11y ago [deleted] Who are the best "current" portrait photographers who do little to no post processing? Archived post. New comments
cannot be posted and votes cannot be cast. Upvote 4 Downvote 11 Go to comments Share u/OpenAI avatar OpenAI • Promoted Planning out complex changes? Plan smarter with Codex,
available with ChatGPT. Sign Up chatgpt.com Thumbnail image: Planning out complex changes? Plan smarter with Codex, available with ChatGPT. Sort by: Best Comments Section [deleted]
• 11y ago Any "BEST" photographers post process their images, whether its digital or film. That's a key aspect of photography and all the "BEST" photographers know and master that
aspect of their craft. Upvote 6 Downvote Award Share seanlucki • 11y ago Ya it's hard to judge a photographer by the ammount of post production they do. A photographer like Frank
Ockenfels or James Minchin can take an amazing portrait of someone without requiring retouching (notice I said retouching, and not post production, which is a very necessary part
of any image), but they're being hired by clients who want to use their already amazing images and retouch/composite them into a final output. http://www.jamesminchin.com/
http://fwo3.com/ [deleted] OP • 11y ago It's just interesting to me because I do see plenty of commercial and fashion photographers, who take the photos and then send it off to a
photoshop pro. seanlucki • 11y ago This is dictated more so by the clients a lot of the time, and not the photographers. The two photographers who's websites I linked; I work as an
assistant for them pretty often. I see exactly what the images look like as soon as they're shot and pop up on the computer (of course with a recipe being applied in Capture One).
The shots look amazing on their own, but that doesn't change the fact that the client will ask for certain retouching to be done. u/lilgreenrosetta avatar lilgreenrosetta • 11y ago
What kind of portrait photography do you like? There are hugely different genres within portraiture. Celebrity portraiture is notheng like documentary portraiture for instance.
[deleted] OP • 11y ago I'm not speaking of light processing like everyone does. I mean advanced photoshop ping like skin work ects. Frequency seperation, phlearn and all that.
rowanhenry • 11y ago I discovered Jimmy Nelson today. I thought some of his shots were pretty spectacular. [deleted] • 11y ago I really like Ryan Muirhead. He does a lot of
portraits/nudes. He shoots film. [deleted] OP • 11y ago For sure! And thanks for the links! u/oil_in_the_radiator avatar oil_in_the_radiator • 11y ago Luke Jones from Green Room
Photography is in my opinion excellent in this regard. Search for him New to Reddit? Create your account and connect with a world of communities. Continue With Phone Number By
continuing, you agree to our User Agreement and acknowledge that you understand the Privacy Policy. Related Answers Section Related Answers Famous portrait photographers to follow
Best self portrait photographers today Tips for taking good portraits Best lenses for portrait photography Tips for capturing stunning landscapes More posts you may like
Non-editing photography r/photography • 9d ago Non-editing photography 82 upvotes · 201 comments u/bookcameo avatar bookcameo • Promoted Cameo is the only gift that makes grown
adults lose composure on camera. Please gift wisely. Thumbnail image: Cameo is the only gift that makes grown adults lose composure on camera. Please gift wisely. cameo.com Book
Now Does anyone else find that the more you learn about photography, the harder it is to just enjoy taking pictures? r/photography • 2mo ago Does anyone else find that the more you
learn about photography, the harder it is to just enjoy taking pictures? 209 upvotes · 63 comments Can anyone recommend a portrait photographer? r/AnnArbor • 8y ago Can anyone
recommend a portrait photographer? 1 upvote · 8 comments What actually improved your photography the most? r/photography • 28d ago What actually improved your photography the most?
174 upvotes · 247 comments I need some advice to look good in photos r/photography • 2mo ago I need some advice to look good in photos 11 upvotes · 19 comments Favorite
art-portrait photogs r/photography • 8y ago Favorite art-portrait photogs 13 upvotes · 8 comments Who are some of the greatest modern photographers? r/photography • 9y ago Who are
some of the greatest modern photographers? 38 upvotes · 63 comments what do yall think is the most repetitive/boring style of photography r/photography • 3mo ago what do yall think
is the most repetitive/boring style of photography 175 upvotes · 395 comments Give credit to the photographer on all posted pictures? r/photography • 6mo ago Give credit to the
photographer on all posted pictures? 117 upvotes · 78 comments What (to you) defines the difference between Fashion and Portrait photography? Which kind of photographer do you
consider yourself? r/photography • 11y ago What (to you) defines the difference between Fashion and Portrait photography? Which kind of photographer do you consider yourself? 2
upvotes · 5 comments What parts of being a professional photographer isn’t talked about enough? r/photography • 1mo ago What parts of being a professional photographer isn’t talked
about enough? 82 upvotes · 145 comments Beginner here, please suggest me your MOST favorite photographer I should learn from. r/photography • 21d ago Beginner here, please suggest
me your MOST favorite photographer I should learn from. 70 upvotes · 128 comments Drop some good portrait photographers to follow! r/photography • 9y ago Drop some good portrait
photographers to follow! 78 upvotes · 66 comments Where do you post your photo projects? r/photography • 4mo ago Where do you post your photo projects? 41 upvotes · 49 comments How
do you get into the luxury/ultra high-end/ destination space? r/WeddingPhotography • 2y ago How do you get into the luxury/ultra high-end/ destination space? 19 upvotes · 31
comments Portrait photographers in Ham? r/Hamilton • 4y ago Portrait photographers in Ham? 4 comments In your opinion, who is the greatest photographer of all time? Why were they
the best? r/photography • 8mo ago In your opinion, who is the greatest photographer of all time? Why were they the best? 31 comments Who are the best portrait oriented photography
channels on YouTube? r/photography • 2y ago Who are the best portrait oriented photography channels on YouTube? 32 upvotes · 49 comments Photographers of Reddit: what is your
favorite portrait photo technique? r/photography • 12y ago Photographers of Reddit: what is your favorite portrait photo technique? 217 upvotes · 190 comments Famous photographers
and their preferred focal lengths? r/photography • 4y ago Famous photographers and their preferred focal lengths? 285 upvotes · 174 comments Do you know a Portrait Photographer?
r/milwaukee • 3y ago Do you know a Portrait Photographer? 5 upvotes · 33 comments Engagement Photographer Recommendations r/Denver • 3mo ago Engagement Photographer Recommendations
8 comments paid photographer $10k and got obviously AI edited photos, reasonable to be mad? r/photography • 2mo ago paid photographer $10k and got obviously AI edited photos,
reasonable to be mad? 636 upvotes · 452 comments Who are the most influential figures one should know as a photographer? r/photography • 2y ago Who are the most influential figures
one should know as a photographer? 1 upvote · 30 comments The Greatest Portrait Photographer of All Time r/photography • 2y ago The Greatest Portrait Photographer of All Time
r/photography - The Greatest Portrait Photographer of All Time youtube 6 comments View Post in Русский Français 简体中文 日本語 See more Community Info Section r/photography Join
Photography /r/photography is a place to politely discuss the tools, technique, art and culture of photography and to post topics that would be of interest to other photographers.
Show more Public Top Posts Reddit reReddit: Top posts of June 2, 2015 Reddit reReddit: Top posts of June 2015 Reddit reReddit: Top posts of 2015 Reddit Rules Privacy Policy User
Agreement Your Privacy Choices Accessibility Reddit, Inc. © 2026. All rights reserved. Collapse Navigation Skip to main content How much do you as a professional make per year? :
r/photography r/photography Search in r/photography Get App Log In Expand user menu Skip to NavigationSkip to Right Sidebar Back Go to photography r/photography • 2y ago Stealth014
How much do you as a professional make per year? Business Hi there! I’m an aspiring photographer and I was curious as to how well some of the people in this community do. How much
do you make per year? What is your specialization/niche? How did you get into said practice? Thank you so much :) Any and all information helps. Photography is my passion and I
understand the risks and hardships that come with it as a profession. To me, it is worth it and I would highly appreciate anything you could offer me info wise. Thank you again!
Archived post. New comments cannot be posted and votes cannot be cast. Upvote 0 Downvote 32 Go to comments Share u/Typeform avatar Typeform • Promoted Data collection, simplified.
Sign Up typeform.com Thumbnail image: Data collection, simplified. Sort by: Best Search Comments Expand comment search Comments Section u/Fins_and_Light avatar Fins_and_Light • 2y
ago I billed enough last year to support a family of four in a tiny (900 sqft) house I’m paying the mortgage on in one of the more expensive parts of my state (Washington). We are
currently on the “don’t get sick” medical insurance plan, and four months later I’m still feeling the pinch from replacing an $800 water heater. I went from news to events to
fishing journalism, which is where I currently am. My area is absolutely saturated for wedding and event photography, so I’m trying to expand a niche that doesn’t really exist
here. Networking, networking, networking. About 80% of the job is networking, 15% is being good at running a small business and proper bookkeeping, and 5% is taking photos. benb28
• 2y ago Have you looked into ACA health insurance? It can even be free or very cheap if your income is low enough. u/Fins_and_Light avatar Fins_and_Light • 2y ago Yeah, and we
have it, but it’s still not great. rsz0r • 2y ago been around this sub for a while, and people here don’t seem to make any money out of it, myself included. not sure you will be
getting a lot of encouragement. keep going with it as a secondary means of income and if it takes off, you can judge if it’s worth to switch as primary. bear in mind that various
people may have different financial goals. my gear is about 10k acquired over several years. that may be peanuts to some and out of reach for others. same goes for what you deem as
sustainable as source of income. keep shooting and maybe it works out. good luck LeicaM6guy • 2y ago This varies wildly. Some shooters make very good money, some barely make
starvation wages. That said, the market… well, it isn’t great. In my corner of the industry, there are a ton of underemployed shooters working for less employers, for less wages.
The good ones typically find daily employment, but that’s a very select breed in a very oversaturated market. I’ve lucked out with a full time gig, but I’m aware that’s like
finding a unicorn. u/Dependent_Ad7534 avatar Dependent_Ad7534 • 2y ago I do architectural filmmaking and photography and my best year is ~225k usd last year. u/anywhereanyone
avatar anywhereanyone • 2y ago • Edited 2y ago Profile Badge for the Achievement Top 1% Commenter Top 1% Commenter You don't understand the hardships until you do it. The industry
is in decline. GoodEyePhoto • 2y ago I average 35K/mo - HCOL area and that shooting 24-30 gigs per mo. u/NYFashionPhotog avatar NYFashionPhotog • 2y ago "Photography is my passion
and I understand the risks and hardships that come with it as a profession." I'm not sure you do. Photography as a professional is not only a highly competitive business, it is
also very diverse in terms of both levels of success as well as genres of work. To put a single number on it is a simply an anecdotal number. Even within a career I have seen my
gross receipts vary by a factor of 10 within 10 years. Also there is no metric or yardstick that will say you have the ability or prospects for a particular number or income that
another photographer has. For the most part it is not a job in the sense of qualifications-equal-some particular level of income. In my experience (30 yrs) it just doesn't work
that way. u/jbloss avatar jbloss • 2y ago Follow this account on instagram for the best info on what it’s actually like as a career - no one on here will have very helpful info
https://www.instagram.com/aphotoeditor?igsh=MWN3OWhndzM4bWFoeQ== MindlessElk1912 • 2y ago Commercial photography is where there's a lot of money to be made. However, it's a highly
competitive and thoroughly saturated industry. And from year to year, your pay can change a lot. I recommend following Tin House Studio on YouTube if you're interested. He knows so
much and is a pro, active in the field, creating some really great on-trend work. [deleted] • 2y ago There are about 3 different genres you can make a decent wage in: fashion,
architecture, and wedding/event/corporate portraiture. The retail giant company I work for has many photographers that shoot models for our fashion catalogs, they are salaried and
it’s just like any other professional job, earning normal good wages. I don’t do that, I’m in store design, but my side gig is in photography where I shoot landscape and
architecture. With architects you can charge thousands for a single photo shoot, it’s worth it to their business interest to get custom made shots of the buildings they design.
Landscapes is luck of the draw and strictly art based. I earn about $10k year shooting just a few architecture jobs and maybe make a couple thousand selling landscape prints.
Corporate and event photography is probably what most pros do, it’s a saturated market and highly competitive, but you can earn a lot if you are top of a regional market. Will take
years to get there though. Outside of that some niche genres can do well, but there are less and less customers willing to pay for photos now then there were decades ago when the
supply of photographers was more limited. It’s a tough biz no matter what. mofozd • 2y ago Look in an oversaturated market, where unfortunately photography as a service is being
devalued year by year, not to mention the AI effect in the coming years, it's all about connections/networking. You have friends, family, acquaintances working on
businesses/companies, use every single one of them and try to get jobs, without fucking them up or making whomever recommended you look bad. I'm talking about commercial
photography., You need to be business smart and an organized person, I've seen some many photographers with a lot of potential just fucking it up, because they can't even do a
deadline. u/Stealth014 avatar Stealth014 OP • 2y ago Thanks ! Really good stuff here :) u/TyBoogie avatar TyBoogie • 2y ago I’m not going to give numbers since it’s private. But I
work and live in NYC comfortably and able to travel and enjoy my life a bit. That didn’t happen until I mixed in video work. Photography alone is tough depending on your market.
u/Stealth014 avatar Stealth014 OP • 2y ago Gotcha; I am getting into videography as well in order to widen my skillset so I’m glad to hear that it has the potential to pay off.
u/playground_ai avatar u/playground_ai • Promoted Playground AI has thousands of POD and cricut templates you can edit and personalize! Sign Up playground.com Clickable image which
will reveal the video player: Playground AI has thousands of POD and cricut templates you can edit and personalize! Collapse video player 0:00 / 0:00 [deleted] • 2y ago
u/Rich_Shop_2267 avatar Rich_Shop_2267 • 2y ago I just hit 100k for this year and I should end around 120k if you have any questions let me know u/Marcus-Musashi avatar
Marcus-Musashi • 2y ago Yeah, what kind of gigs? What country are you in? How many hours do you work? Do you have a studio? What niches? u/Rich_Shop_2267 avatar Rich_Shop_2267 • 2y
ago Mostly weddings, corporate headshots and helping small business to be seen with photos online. I live in Switzerland..no studio 7 more replies u/RidexSDS avatar RidexSDS • 2y
ago • Edited 2y ago I'm a bit of a outlier. Been doing photo for fun for the last 10 years, didn't really try to make money off it as I had a full time job and thought it would be
difficult to make $ doing it. I landed a side job at a private high-end car dealership about a year ago, making $70-100k shooting cars for their website and social media. From
shooting every day I have gotten better in the last 12 months than I have in the last 10 years. This launched my freelance career and got my name out there, so I shoot during the
week at the dealer, then do freelance on the weekends. I do 90% cars, but also do drone video/photo for real estate, some portraits when people ask. My first year as a professional
I'm making around $120k/yr between the dealer and freelance, and this is on top of my full time tech job that adds another 6-figures. For me it's been really easy to make good
money. It seems like for most its a struggle but once I finally crossed that "professional" line it's been easy for me. You really just need to stand out and be good, I guess. I
quickly realized most "pros" are really crappy and expensive. Very few people can see and edit color well. By being cheaper and better I've taken a lot of peoples business. Most of
my clients were impressed by my work and word spread quickly. I never imagined I'd be making this much so quickly for a fun side gig. Happy to help however I can. 3 more replies
New to Reddit? Create your account and connect with a world of communities. Continue With Phone Number By continuing, you agree to our User Agreement and acknowledge that you
understand the Privacy Policy. Related Answers Section Related Answers Average salary for photographers Investment tips for photographers Best lenses for portrait photography Tips
for capturing stunning landscapes How to improve low-light photography skills More posts you may like how can i make career in this field? r/Compilers • 2mo ago how can i make
career in this field? 66 upvotes · 34 comments u/shopify avatar shopify • Promoted With Shopify, Emma turned her passion for coffee into a business. Start your free trial today.
Thumbnail image: With Shopify, Emma turned her passion for coffee into a business. Start your free trial today. shopify.com Sign Up Is personal finance the most underrated prep?
r/EuroPreppers • 17d ago Is personal finance the most underrated prep? 38 upvotes · 11 comments Second Shooter Pay Per Hour r/WeddingPhotography • 4y ago Second Shooter Pay Per
Hour 7 upvotes · 14 comments Budget friendly photographers r/auckland • 3mo ago Budget friendly photographers 19 comments Average salary of a photographer r/srilanka • 5mo ago
Average salary of a photographer 10 upvotes · 7 comments (Professional) Architectural Photographers: tell me about your job? r/photography • 3y ago (Professional) Architectural
Photographers: tell me about your job? 9 upvotes · 13 comments Do you VS Can you r/grammar • 1y ago Do you VS Can you 12 comments Looking for Orlando family photographer
suggestions r/orlando • 7mo ago Looking for Orlando family photographer suggestions 4 upvotes · 7 comments ¿Cuánto cobra o debería cobrar un Fotografo? r/MexicoCity • 6y ago
¿Cuánto cobra o debería cobrar un Fotografo? 1 upvote · 2 comments I have a question r/cyberpunkgame • 2y ago I have a question 17 comments Cuánto gana un editor de video y
fotógrafo? r/Colombia • 1y ago Cuánto gana un editor de video y fotógrafo? 1 upvote · 9 comments Is your salary enough? r/Psychiatry • 2mo ago Is your salary enough? 29 upvotes ·
84 comments What is a fair wage for a photographer's assistant? r/photography • 14y ago What is a fair wage for a photographer's assistant? 23 upvotes · 37 comments What do I
charge for photographing an event? r/photography • 3y ago What do I charge for photographing an event? 32 upvotes · 26 comments Serious question here about salary r/partscounter •
2mo ago Serious question here about salary 25 upvotes · 48 comments They told me my salary expectations are too high r/graphic_design • 3mo ago They told me my salary expectations
are too high 89 upvotes · 55 comments Good Salary? r/ocala • 5mo ago Good Salary? 33 upvotes · 43 comments How much money do you make per month? r/hyderabad • 2y ago How much money
do you make per month? 8 upvotes · 14 comments What low paying job can you get with a professional degree? r/AlignmentChartFills • 14d ago What low paying job can you get with a
professional degree? 189 upvotes · 87 comments What was your salary progression straight out of college? r/NuclearEngineering • 6mo ago What was your salary progression straight
out of college? 33 upvotes · 27 comments Quanto ganha um fotógrafo iniciante autônomo? r/fotografiaBR • 2y ago Quanto ganha um fotógrafo iniciante autônomo? 1 upvote · 3 comments
Question how high is your gross salary? r/BESalary • 27d ago Question how high is your gross salary? 63 comments Photographer Needed r/Scottsdale • 8mo ago Photographer Needed 26
upvotes · 28 comments Salary Expectations r/threatintel • 2mo ago Salary Expectations 24 upvotes · 19 comments Please rate my salary r/BESalary • 22d ago Please rate my salary 12
upvotes · 18 comments View Post in 简体中文 繁體中文 Tiếng Việt Português (Brasil) See more Community Info Section r/photography Join Photography /r/photography is a place to politely
discuss the tools, technique, art and culture of photography and to post topics that would be of interest to other photographers. Show more Public Top Posts Reddit reReddit: Top
posts of July 15, 2024 Reddit reReddit: Top posts of July 2024 Reddit reReddit: Top posts of 2024 Reddit Rules Privacy Policy User Agreement Your Privacy Choices Accessibility
Reddit, Inc. © 2026. All rights reserved. Collapse Navigation Skip to main content What are your favourite portrait photographers and why? : r/Beginning_Photography
r/Beginning_Photography Search in r/Beginning_Photography Get App Log In Expand user menu Skip to NavigationSkip to Right Sidebar Back Go to Beginning_Photography
r/Beginning_Photography • 7y ago sovesen What are your favourite portrait photographers and why? I'm fairly new to portrait photography and want to seek inspiration in others work.
I know some of the most common photographers, but I was hoping to get a little help from this wonderful community. So as the title says : What are your favourite portrait
photographers and why? Archived post. New comments cannot be posted and votes cannot be cast. Upvote 11 Downvote 11 Go to comments Share u/AxonbyAppLovin avatar AxonbyAppLovin •
Promoted Profitable advertising made simple Profitable advertising made simple Profitable advertising made simple Profitable advertising made simple Profitable advertising made
simple Profitable advertising made simple Profitable advertising made simple axon.ai Learn More Sort by: Best Comments Section christamh • 7y ago
https://www.gemmywoudbinnendijk.com/Gallery Gallery speaks for itself Upvote 8 Downvote Award Share Will29620 • 7y ago Thank you for sharing, she is amazing. Upvote 1 Downvote
Award Share u/potatoez4life avatar potatoez4life • 7y ago Arnold Newman. The king of environmental portraiture. http://arnoldnewman.com/portraits Yousuf Karsh. He is a master of
light, and his ability to capture larger than life personalities in simple portraits puts him near the top for me. Ernest Hemmingway Marcel Marceau Fidel Castro Winston Churchill
Clark Gable Audrey Hepburn Nikita Khrushchev jessdb19 • 7y ago Cindy Sherman, her self portrait work was inspiring to me. Diane Arbus, she took environmental portrait work to a new
level with her subjects. Sally Mann, I know she gets a lot of hate, but her work is truly stunning in quality. Richard Avedon, I love his simplistic style of portrait work. Gammy
Woud-Binnendijk, his style is awe inspiring and his use of light is magnificent I have more, but I am pressed for time u/fuqsfunny avatar fuqsfunny • 7y ago • Edited 7y ago Annie
Leibovitz I've loved her work from the very first image I saw. Iconic. Helmut Newton One of the quintessential (in my eyes) portrait/fashion/erotic photographers of the 20th
century. His work was and still is very unique. Mark Seliger- One of my all-time favorites. I love his use of light and the intimacy he seems to have in his images. Steve McCurry
NatGeo location photographer. What this guy can do with a location portrait in the middle of nowhere with minimal gear is pretty incredible. Nan Goldin Nan, in particular, with her
unpolished snapshot style, has been oddly influential in fashion-oriented portrait photography. Her work shows that a well-done portrait goes beyond gear and polished technique.
Alilbitdrunk • 7y ago https://500px.com/rarindra https://500px.com/jessicadrossin alexpv • 7y ago Paolo Roversi keefstanz • 7y ago What are they? They are people who take great
photos, who are they, now that's a whole other story. kinginthenorth78 • 7y ago Erwin Olaf is one of many favorites of mine! https://www.erwinolaf.com/art u/swmpynke avatar
swmpynke • 7y ago Jane Bown for her very sensitive portraits. Also her simple gear was very inspiring. She used the same camera, lens and exposure for most of her best known work.
New to Reddit? Create your account and connect with a world of communities. Continue With Phone Number By continuing, you agree to our User Agreement and acknowledge that you
understand the Privacy Policy. Related Answers Section Related Answers Best portrait photographers recommendations Essential camera settings for beginners Tips for capturing
stunning landscapes How to improve low-light photography skills Creative ways to use natural light More posts you may like Do you think portraits would diminish the fun?
r/Roadwarden • 19d ago Do you think portraits would diminish the fun? 34 upvotes · 13 comments u/calottery avatar calottery • Promoted Break up your daily routine by adding a
little play with Scratchers®! Thumbnail image: Break up your daily routine by adding a little play with Scratchers®! calottery.com Learn More Experiences starting a portrait
photography business r/photography • 7y ago Experiences starting a portrait photography business 7 upvotes · 4 comments Portraits: My Favourite Subject r/Hand_Embroidery • 20d ago
Portraits: My Favourite Subject r/Hand_Embroidery - Portraits: My Favourite Subject 7 142 upvotes · 6 comments Portrait? r/photography • 2y ago Portrait? 2 comments The Greatest
Portrait Photographer of All Time r/photography • 2y ago The Greatest Portrait Photographer of All Time r/photography - The Greatest Portrait Photographer of All Time youtube 6
comments Wanting to get into Portrait Photography r/photocritique • 4mo ago Wanting to get into Portrait Photography r/photocritique - Wanting to get into Portrait Photography 60
upvotes · 30 comments Would you be happy with this portrait if you were paying for it? And if not why? r/photocritique • 7d ago Would you be happy with this portrait if you were
paying for it? And if not why? r/photocritique - Would you be happy with this portrait if you were paying for it? And if not why? 118 upvotes · 164 comments Portraits
r/fashionphotography • 13d ago Portraits r/fashionphotography - Portraits 4 271 upvotes · 23 comments Hired to capture proposal, seeking advice! r/photography • 6d ago Hired to
capture proposal, seeking advice! 21 upvotes · 18 comments What do you think of this portrait? r/photocritique • 4mo ago What do you think of this portrait? r/photocritique - What
do you think of this portrait? 169 upvotes · 17 comments How’s The Photography? r/photos • 9d ago How’s The Photography? r/photos - How’s The Photography? 11 49 upvotes · 31
comments Pursuing modelling / portrait photography as a hobbyist r/photography • 4y ago Pursuing modelling / portrait photography as a hobbyist 249 upvotes · 64 comments Why are so
many portrait photography studios closing ? r/photography • 2y ago Why are so many portrait photography studios closing ? 24 upvotes · 125 comments Recommendations for portrait
photographers in Sydney r/sydney • 14y ago Recommendations for portrait photographers in Sydney 2 upvotes · 6 comments Portrait photography r/photocritique • 4mo ago Portrait
photography r/photocritique - Portrait photography 175 upvotes · 23 comments Photographers for Fall Family Photos r/NewOrleans • 4y ago Photographers for Fall Family Photos 10
upvotes · 9 comments Do you find that your best photos are the ones in which you do a lot or a little editing? r/photography • 6d ago Do you find that your best photos are the ones
in which you do a lot or a little editing? 16 upvotes · 35 comments Any good self portrait works that you know? r/AnalogCommunity • 1y ago Any good self portrait works that you
know? 3 upvotes · 5 comments If this portrait could speak, what would it say? r/sketches • 6mo ago If this portrait could speak, what would it say? r/sketches - If this portrait
could speak, what would it say? 79 upvotes · 43 comments Looking for a Fashionable/Artsy Portrait Photographer r/Denver • 1y ago Looking for a Fashionable/Artsy Portrait
Photographer 2 upvotes · 5 comments Photo portrait studios in Denver? r/Denver • 1y ago Photo portrait studios in Denver? 1 upvote · 2 comments Portraits r/cleandndai • 2mo ago
Portraits r/cleandndai - Portraits 16 330 upvotes · 10 comments Looking for Photographers r/mumbai • 1y ago Looking for Photographers 3 upvotes · 9 comments Advice for doing a
business portrait? r/photography • 6y ago Advice for doing a business portrait? 1 upvote · 7 comments Portrait photographers? r/Austin • 4y ago Portrait photographers? 15 comments
View Post in 日本語 简体中文 Français Русский Português (Brasil) See more Community Info Section r/Beginning_Photography Join Beginning Photography READ HERE FIRST: Sort the sub by "Hot"
and you'll see a Post titled "READ THIS POST BEFORE POSTING TO "r/Beginning_Photography" pinned to the top of the sub. Please, READ IT! It has a link to the sub rules and a Q&A
about what the sub is all about, as well as links to the sub Wiki and warnings to Surveyors /YouTubers/Bloggers/Article Writers/Intagrammers/Course Creators/App Developers and
other attention-seekers. Show more Public Top Posts Reddit reReddit: Top posts of January 26, 2019 Reddit reReddit: Top posts of January 2019 Reddit reReddit: Top posts of 2019
Reddit Rules Privacy Policy User Agreement Your Privacy Choices Accessibility Reddit, Inc. © 2026. All rights reserved. Collapse Navigation Skip to main content I don't think
getting a very expensive photographer is worth it on the (very) long term : r/weddingplanning r/weddingplanning Search in r/weddingplanning Get App Log In Expand user menu Skip to
NavigationSkip to Right Sidebar Back Go to weddingplanning r/weddingplanning • 2y ago Specialist-Brain-919 I don't think getting a very expensive photographer is worth it on the
(very) long term Vendors/Venue This might be an unpopular opinion, but I mostly want to have wedding photos to show my kids, my grandkids etc and I think spending thousands more on
a photographer won't matter at all when we'll look at them in 40 years. I love looking at old photos from family members and what I see is happy people spending time together,
celebrating life events etc, not if the picture is perfect. In all the old photos I look at, the quality is terrible, half the people have their eyes closed etc, and it doesn't
matter! Photos don't have to be perfect to show great memories. Things changed quite recently with numeric cameras and social media, and I think the need to have everything perfect
is kind of ruining the beauty of living in the moment. That is maybe my way of reassuring myself after hiring a photographer way cheaper than the average where we live, but we love
her pictures and they don't have to be technically perfect to be great memories in my opinion. EDIT: We love our photographer's pictures and editing skills, she is cheap but she
has done several weddings and we think our pictures will be great! Maybe not technically perfect but good enough for us. For us, spending 2k more wouldn't matter enough, we'd
rather spend that money on a trip and create new memories. Upvote 229 Downvote 104 Go to comments Share u/Colgate_US avatar Colgate_US • Promoted Get ready to WOW. Brush your way
to a brighter smile with Colgate Optic White Pro Series. Shop Now shop.mikmak.ai Clickable image which will reveal the video player: Get ready to WOW. Brush your way to a brighter
smile with Colgate Optic White Pro Series. Collapse video player 0:00 / 0:00 Join the conversation Sort by: Best Search Comments Expand comment search Comments Section
u/EmeraldLovergreen avatar EmeraldLovergreen • 2y ago We love candid photos and we told our photographer that we wanted to focus most of our attention on them. That said,
