sell anything online) 34 upvotes · 22 comments I studied 60+ consumer behaviors. Here are top 5 buyer psychology lessons that actually make people buy r/HowToEntrepreneur • 8mo ago
I studied 60+ consumer behaviors. Here are top 5 buyer psychology lessons that actually make people buy 114 upvotes · 9 comments Other than this subreddit, where do you look for
honest reviews for products before you buy? How do you personally determine if a review is valuable to you? r/BuyItForLife • 3y ago Other than this subreddit, where do you look for
honest reviews for products before you buy? How do you personally determine if a review is valuable to you? 71 upvotes · 117 comments Do you know someone that is insanely good with
marketing? r/Entrepreneur • 2mo ago Do you know someone that is insanely good with marketing? 24 upvotes · 56 comments What’s the best customer experience you’ve ever had, and why
did it stick? r/CustomerService • 5mo ago What’s the best customer experience you’ve ever had, and why did it stick? 8 upvotes · 16 comments How do you validate a product idea
before committing to development? r/ecommerce • 28d ago How do you validate a product idea before committing to development? 3 upvotes · 23 comments How We Used Psychology To
Increase Positive Reviews r/androiddev • 1y ago How We Used Psychology To Increase Positive Reviews r/androiddev - How We Used Psychology To Increase Positive Reviews 75 upvotes ·
12 comments How We Used Psychology To Increase Positive Reviews r/SocialEngineering • 1y ago How We Used Psychology To Increase Positive Reviews r/SocialEngineering - How We Used
Psychology To Increase Positive Reviews 7 upvotes · 1 comment what actually got you your first 10 paying customers - not traffic, actual paying customers? r/SaaS • 9d ago what
actually got you your first 10 paying customers - not traffic, actual paying customers? 31 upvotes · 127 comments What's the best site to buy reviews.io reviews right now? Any
recommendations? r/eCommerceSEO • 8d ago What's the best site to buy reviews.io reviews right now? Any recommendations? 108 upvotes · 26 comments Should you leave feedback for
buyers? r/Ebay • 3y ago Should you leave feedback for buyers? 6 upvotes · 42 comments As a seller, what kind of reviews should I leave for a buyer? r/Mercari • 2y ago As a seller,
what kind of reviews should I leave for a buyer? 13 comments How do you actually get customers to leave reviews in 2026? r/smallbusinessowner • 1mo ago How do you actually get
customers to leave reviews in 2026? 20 upvotes · 27 comments View Post in Français Community Info Section r/ecommerce Join Reddit eCommerce A community dedicated to the design and
implementation of eCommerce sites. For seasoned retailers or newcomers to the industry, this is the perfect place to seek guidance and discuss all aspects of selling online. Engage
in insightful discussions on topics such as selling tips, marketing strategies, SEO optimization, product selection, checkout processes, conversions, and more. Our community
provides a platform for helpful and honest discussions aimed at helping you increase your online sales. Show more Public Reddit Rules Privacy Policy User Agreement Your Privacy
Choices Accessibility Reddit, Inc. © 2026. All rights reserved. Collapse Navigation Skip to main content What actually makes a brand feel "premium"? Breaking down the psychology
behind D2C luxury perception : r/branding r/branding Search in r/branding Get App Log In Expand user menu Skip to NavigationSkip to Right Sidebar Back Go to branding r/branding •
2mo ago rohan_rhn_ What actually makes a brand feel "premium"? Breaking down the psychology behind D2C luxury perception Most D2C brands obsess over product quality — and that
matters. But there's a deeper layer most brands miss: the psychological journey a buyer takes before they ever hit checkout. Looking at brand perception research, premium
perception isn't just about price or materials. It's built on four pillars: • Authenticity & Heritage — a narrative of craftsmanship and history that feels real, not manufactured •
Rarity & Exclusivity — the feeling of belonging to a select group, not just buying a product • Trust & Quality Assurance — flawless attention to detail that signals uncompromising
standards • Social Signaling & Status — the subconscious message it sends to others about who you are And then there's the purchase journey itself — from the first sensory
impression (material, design, even scent), to emotional alignment with self-image, to the "smart buyer" satisfaction at checkout, and finally the post-purchase loyalty loop. This
is exactly why luxury web design matters so much for D2C brands. Your website IS the first sensory touchpoint. It either reinforces premium perception or destroys it within
seconds. What do you think makes a brand feel genuinely premium vs. just expensive? And have you ever noticed a brand's website kill the luxury feeling before you even saw the
price? Upvote 0 Downvote 3 Go to comments Share Join the conversation Sort by: Best Search Comments Expand comment search Comments Section Majestic-Context-290 • 2mo ago For
premium perception, the digital trail matters more than the site design. I've tried tracking brand sentiment through tools like Brandwatch, Mention, or Sprout Social, but they miss
how AI models actually talk about you. I've been testing GrowthOS to track how my brand shows up in LLM-generated responses. It gives visibility into specific brand mentions and
sentiment within AI search results, though I'm not sure if it captures the full psychological journey yet. Focus on where the AI points people before they even land on your site.
[deleted] • 2mo ago u/NotGuiltyISwear avatar NotGuiltyISwear • 2mo ago Stop this GPT-generated shit. Please stop. “Most brands”, “and that matters”… It’s not that you’re wrong,
it’s that you can’t claim to be posting from your “experience” when it’s AI generated. It immediately occupies a space in the brain reserved for bullshit. And that lack of
authenticity is an absolute death sentence for brands hoping to play in the luxury space. And that IS said from experience. New to Reddit? Create your account and connect with a
world of communities. Continue With Phone Number By continuing, you agree to our User Agreement and acknowledge that you understand the Privacy Policy. Related Answers Section
Related Answers Understanding premium brand perception in D2C Insights on brand psychology Best books on branding and marketing Key elements of luxury hotel room features Branding
process and its importance More posts you may like Do you think a lot of companies, especially start-ups, confuse brand image building (customer perception of the brand) and
performance marketing as being one and the same? And how do you handle building the brand image for a start-up that has limited funds? r/marketing • 1y ago Do you think a lot of
companies, especially start-ups, confuse brand image building (customer perception of the brand) and performance marketing as being one and the same? And how do you handle building
the brand image for a start-up that has limited funds? 2 upvotes · 11 comments Why most "Premium" brands are actually ruining their image with cheap OOH placements. r/advertising •
2mo ago Why most "Premium" brands are actually ruining their image with cheap OOH placements. 14 upvotes · 21 comments Brand perception study - asap help r/study • 2y ago Brand
perception study - asap help 1 upvote · 2 comments The Role of Color Psychology in Branding r/branding • 3y ago The Role of Color Psychology in Branding 9 upvotes · 8 comments Is
branding just perception, or is it something deeper? r/branding • 12d ago Is branding just perception, or is it something deeper? 13 upvotes · 15 comments What actually makes a
brand feel premium and trustworthy to a cold audience, and how do you build that without an agency budget? r/Entrepreneurs • 3d ago What actually makes a brand feel premium and
trustworthy to a cold audience, and how do you build that without an agency budget? 20 upvotes · 14 comments Can a permissionless brand work? r/branding • 5mo ago Can a
permissionless brand work? 29 upvotes · 28 comments Brand perception vs reality - founder input r/branding • 3mo ago Brand perception vs reality - founder input 4 upvotes · 5
comments Is a brand's "why" actually important to customers or just to marketers? r/branding • 8d ago Is a brand's "why" actually important to customers or just to marketers? 15
upvotes · 27 comments Anyone here does a comprehensive Brand Experience Guide? r/branding • 1y ago Anyone here does a comprehensive Brand Experience Guide? 3 upvotes · 3 comments
What makes a brand memorable? r/branding • 6mo ago What makes a brand memorable? 11 upvotes · 34 comments Which new brands are actually doing distinctive visual work right now?
r/branding • 11d ago Which new brands are actually doing distinctive visual work right now? 13 upvotes · 12 comments I need a brown everyday bag DESPERATELY r/handbags • 8mo ago I
need a brown everyday bag DESPERATELY r/handbags - I need a brown everyday bag DESPERATELY 3 31 upvotes · 46 comments How do you manage your brand experience touchpoints?
r/advertising • 1y ago How do you manage your brand experience touchpoints? 7 upvotes · 1 comment is it just me or is personal branding getting impossible lately? r/branding • 3mo
ago is it just me or is personal branding getting impossible lately? 11 upvotes · 14 comments Experiential Brand Marketing Amateur Research r/OnlineMarketing • 4mo ago Experiential
Brand Marketing Amateur Research 9 upvotes · 5 comments Most “premium” brands fail because they confuse luxury with expense r/branding • 4mo ago Most “premium” brands fail because
they confuse luxury with expense 6 comments Sensory branding is some next level sh*t! r/branding • 7y ago Sensory branding is some next level sh*t! 5 upvotes · 1 comment Perfume
Impression makers r/pakistan • 2y ago Perfume Impression makers 2 upvotes · 19 comments How important consistent experience is for a brand r/branding • 6d ago How important
consistent experience is for a brand 2 upvotes · 12 comments Your brand is not defined by your perception, but by the belief of others. r/Entrepreneur • 2y ago Your brand is not
defined by your perception, but by the belief of others. 3 upvotes · 3 comments Where can I find people who talk about design, branding and marketing psychology? r/branding • 2mo
ago Where can I find people who talk about design, branding and marketing psychology? 41 upvotes · 19 comments I am very interested to know the psychology behind branding and how
the superbrands have infiltrated society. Can anyone recommend any videos , books or websites? r/psychology • 14y ago I am very interested to know the psychology behind branding
and how the superbrands have infiltrated society. Can anyone recommend any videos , books or websites? 170 upvotes · 75 comments How do you even start building a brand?? r/branding
• 2mo ago How do you even start building a brand?? 11 upvotes · 39 comments Which audio companies have you found to have the greatest customer service? Any that you avoid... and if
so, why? r/audiophile • 1y ago Which audio companies have you found to have the greatest customer service? Any that you avoid... and if so, why? 47 upvotes · 211 comments View Post
in Français हिन्दी Português (Brasil) See more Community Info Section r/branding Join branding discussion, news & advice /r/branding welcomes discussion about → Engaging
applications → Case studies → Management techniques → Growing your brand Show more Public Reddit Rules Privacy Policy User Agreement Your Privacy Choices Accessibility Reddit, Inc.
© 2026. All rights reserved. Collapse Navigation Skip to main content Luxury/high-end wedding photographers (10k+ per wedd) what do you include for the client?? :
r/WeddingPhotography r/WeddingPhotography Search in r/WeddingPhotography Get App Log In Expand user menu Skip to NavigationSkip to Right Sidebar Back Go to WeddingPhotography
r/WeddingPhotography • 2y ago navigator87 Luxury/high-end wedding photographers (10k+ per wedd) what do you include for the client?? Serious question as I've been doing research
into the luxury market recently, and most if not all the photographers don't list pricing and offer an 'investment guide' or something of the like. Sorry if it's a dumb question,
but what exactly does your client's investment consist of at these higher price points? I'm talking 10-25k per wedding. Is it just great branding/marketing and your packages are
pretty much the same as X who charges 2k? Or is it that you offer more 'stuff', albums, shoots, etc, or bit of both? I'm struggling this year/next year and any insight would be
greatly appreciated. Thanks everyone. Upvote 40 Downvote 53 Go to comments Share u/Colgate_US avatar Colgate_US • Promoted Get ready to WOW. Brush your way to a brighter smile with
Colgate Optic White Pro Series. Shop Now shop.mikmak.ai Clickable image which will reveal the video player: Get ready to WOW. Brush your way to a brighter smile with Colgate Optic
White Pro Series. Collapse video player 0:00 / 0:00 Join the conversation Sort by: Best Search Comments Expand comment search Comments Section u/evanrphoto avatar evanrphoto • 2y
ago • Edited 2y ago Short answer: More wedding events and more coverage and more photographers Experience with larger production weddings and ability to execute under any and all
circumstances Ability to get published or conversely ability to provide complete privacy and discretion Travel Long answer: Bigger budget weddings do often mean more days and more
events and more photographers. Even a simple wedding can turn into welcome party + wedding day + farewell brunch and that doesn’t even include engagement shoot or bridal shower or
engagement party. Also, a lot of photographers in this space also offer video even if subcontracted. A photographer starting at $8k can hit a $25k booking real fast from this alone
even before you get to albums etc. This is also why there is a bit of a dead spot between $10k to $20k weddings. If you are already going to be paying roughly around $10k for your
wedding day you are probably also paying a lot more to have the other events covered as well. What I don’t hear spoken about enough in this conversation that needs to be
appreciated is that at the highest level the weddings it isn’t about a high ceiling of what you deliver, but about how high your floor is. People spending $250K, $500k, $1M, $5M+
on their wedding have near zero tolerance for uncertainty, risk, and failure. So they are paying a premium for experience, professionalism, certainty of execution. They want
photographers who have experience with complicated weddings with a lot of production and can execute quickly and decisively in chaotic environments and deal with stressful client
situation with class. Or at least this is why planners in this space recommend certain photographers (and the ability to shoot details well). Someone paying their photographer
$20k+ for one day of coverage isn’t likely just finding them randomly off of IG, but are getting connected through planners or at least getting references through friends or other
wedding vendors. Sure, some couples want to be published in a magazine for which they might hire a photographer who they believe will get them published and pay a premium for that,
but in the true luxury space it is more common to be paying a premium for discretion and privacy. PS: Just like with destination wedding photographers, most of the successful true
"luxury" photographers aren’t selling courses or promoting themselves and aren't "popular"/"famous". They have no need for that. So the reality is quite a bit different from the
way it is portrayed through IG in many regards. Or at least how one may perceive it if only seeing things on Instagram. Your average “luxury” client isn’t a celebrity or a pro
athlete, but the child of a hedge fund owner, CEO, business founder, law firm owner, or larger medical practice owner. The really interesting space IMO are those wedding
photographers who just have solid relationships with ~2 planners and book their 15 at $20k+ and don’t even have an IG and haven’t touched their website in 10 years. There are more
of those people than the few “popular” luxury photographers. I used to think some of the photographers I followed dropped out of wedding photography but eventually realized they
just evolved past the online presence space. And this is why those that say it’s about “branding” aren’t necessarily quite on point. Overall I would say it’s about relationships
more than branding although the two are certainly interrelated. PPS: Also be very wary of numbers and $ amounts people talk about. People will often state their number which in
reality might be their top wedding they booked last year, and not their average, or perhaps their planned pricing for next year which they haven’t booked at yet. Or I am currently
hearing numbers “people are charging” but in reality I find out it’s photo + video which is an entirely different story. Many “luxury” wedding photographers include travel and stay
for their entire team (often 4+ people) in all of their rates which can add up to quite a lot. And these photographers have more experienced shooters so if you are paying 2 or 3
second shooters at premium rates they may be paying out $3k-$6k+ for second shooters and assistants. So, just take all of the hard numbers you read with context and a grain of
salt. [deleted] • 2y ago Can't thank you enough for taking the time to write this. Supremely helpful to see your perspective. u/josephallenkeys avatar josephallenkeys • 2y ago •
Edited 2y ago Evan, thank you so much for this considered response! They want photographers who have experience with complicated weddings with a lot of production and can execute
quickly and decisively in chaotic environments and deal with stressful client situation with class. I might honestly plagerise this for my website! Haha! Or paraphrase, of course.
This is exactly how I want to present myself. evolved past the online presence space Holy shit. That's God tier! navigator87 OP • 2y ago Saved. Couldn't have asked for a better
breakdown, thank you my friend! This totally clears the fog on a lot of my thinkings around this, and 100% agree with you that it's always been about who you know. Contacts are
key. Funny that you touch on the pro's that sell courses and all that (which imho, are mostly B.S with a few nuggets). I was literally watching a free 'I make 25K per wedding
masterclass' aimed the luxe market yesterday, that turned was the same as every other course of that ilk, that tells you to charge this, do xyz and you'll see blah blah bookings in
10 days. They didn't even hint that they'd touch on the level of professionalism/certainty of execution, as you put so well, that it takes to succeed in the industry at this level.
probably because they'd put some people off pruchasing it I guess. "those wedding photographers who just have solid relationships with ~2 planners and book their 15 at $20k+ and
don’t even have an IG and haven’t touched their website in 10 years" 100%. I'm looking heavily into the planner direction this year and definitely have my foot in the door from
weddings I did last year, that I just need to nurture. Thanks so much again for this, I'm certain this will help so many others out there looking for this insight too. 1 more reply
bugpfeifee • 2y ago Evan, you’re the goat. hellolamps • 2y ago Excellent answer! Excellent_Fig5525 • 2y ago You consistently provide the most thoughtful, insightful comments on
this forum that reflect your experience and professionalism in this industry. Your clients are lucky to have you! u/evanrphoto avatar evanrphoto • 2y ago Thank you for the kind
words. And it seems with your thoughtfulness, yours are as well. 1 more reply u/FormallyMelC avatar FormallyMelC • 2y ago I’ve worked with a few higher priced photographers (20k+)
and most included all weekend events covered (welcome dinner, wedding, morning after brunch) as well as the idea that they’re more likely to get the wedding published or posted
somewhere. Day of doesn’t feel very different from $7k photographers I’ve worked with although sometimes the more expensive ones will have a team of 4-6 people just for photo. 19
more replies Cuddly-Bear0-0 • 2y ago • Edited 2y ago The last big expensive wedding I was involved in the photographer had 3 second shooters and each second shooter had an
assistant to hold bags, help with lighting or fluffing the dress etc etc. I was one of the assistant to one of the second shooters. Which perry much ment I was holding a mono pod
with a ad200 alot of the day pointing it where the guy was shooting. Just to add I'm a wedding photographer of my own but I was hired as an assistant to a more experienced
photographer in my area. Who I guess got hired by the main guy. u/hiscox_insurance avatar u/hiscox_insurance • Promoted Over 600K businesses across the US trust Hiscox. We care
about your small business and make it easy for you to file a claim. Sign Up hiscox.com Clickable image which will reveal the video player: Over 600K businesses across the US trust
Hiscox. We care about your small business and make it easy for you to file a claim. Collapse video player 0:00 / 0:00 u/sejonreddit avatar sejonreddit • 2y ago I'm not regularly
that high, but I did a $11700 AUD one last year which was 11hrs on the day, a preshoot, a 11x14" 40 side album, and 3 x 16x24" enlargements 2 more replies u/editorialphotog avatar
editorialphotog • 2y ago We’re more in the $8-10k range but we include engagement sessions, film photography, multi day event coverage. Those are the main upgrades our clients go
for to get us to the $9-11k overall spend navigator87 OP • 2y ago thanks for this! So I'm guessing you have a 'starting from' price for the actual photography, and then work with
the couple to fill-out the package? u/thenerdyphoto avatar thenerdyphoto • 2y ago "Luxury wedding photography" isn't just about what's in the package (albums, prints, etc.) it's
also about the experience you give to the client. As some have mentioned in other comments, it is the experience with 'big production' weddings and being able to manage all of
those logistics and still create amazing work. When it comes to the experience, you really have to think about luxury brands and how they treat their clientele. They have
showrooms. You walk in and someone brings you a drink, etc. I did an entire episode on luxury wedding photography -
https://nerdyphotographer.com/podcast/episode-086-luxury-wedding-photography/ u/tripleaw avatar tripleaw • 2y ago • Edited 2y ago I can offer a bride’s POV as we inquired with
loads of luxury photographers and booked one for ourselves. Our package includes: three hour welcome dinner / mini shoot 10 hour wedding day coverage second shooter for wedding day
post wedding morning after shoot (this was gifted to us by the photographer actually) all travel fees included (she’s from the UK but our wedding will be in Spain) However, luxury
brides also have very high expectations and you will need a super strong portfolio to support your prices. I probably went through at least 20-30 photographers’ full galleries,
short listed them, talked to a few on the phone before deciding on ours! I also helped a few fellow luxury brides/grooms pick photographers, chat about photographers’ portfolio for
fun, and I can tell you when we are spending five figs (10, 20, or 50k+), we are VERY picky in who we choose for good reasons! navigator87 OP • 2y ago This is great insight coming
from an actual bride - thank you so much for sharing this! I've droppd you a quick PM :) [deleted] • 2y ago u/privacydotcom avatar u/privacydotcom • Promoted Your purchases. Your
business. Privacy.com. Learn More privacy.com Thumbnail image: Your purchases. Your business. Privacy.com. [deleted] • 2y ago Kevin-L-Photography • 2y ago Definitely
branding/marketing and you already in a group of folks that afford your type of services. evil_twit • 2y ago A friend of mine does this. It's ONLY about who you are and how you act
and who you know to get in. He would fit in as a guest. [deleted] • 2y ago I guess somebody forgot to tell Jose Villa. [deleted] • 1y ago Ohnokohnophotos blog actually did a nice
little breakdown about this. It was very informative, the woman who owns the blog actually is very knowledgeable and helpful when you speak to her directly, she is definitely
someone I am considering for my wedding vow renewals(the photographer I hired for my wedding REALLY botched the job 😭). 2 more replies New to Reddit? Create your account and
connect with a world of communities. Continue With Phone Number By continuing, you agree to our User Agreement and acknowledge that you understand the Privacy Policy. Related
Answers Section Related Answers Best wedding photographers for luxury events Artistic wedding photography styles and tips Best practices for luxury wedding planners Destination
wedding videography tips Tips for capturing candid moments at weddings More posts you may like Question: How much are you tipping photographers and planners? r/BigBudgetBrides • 2y
ago Question: How much are you tipping photographers and planners? 14 upvotes · 20 comments Searching for Specific Style of Wedding Photographer r/houston • 4mo ago Searching for
Specific Style of Wedding Photographer r/houston - Searching for Specific Style of Wedding Photographer 10 comments What is a luxury wedding photographer? r/WeddingPhotography •
3mo ago What is a luxury wedding photographer? 51 upvotes · 41 comments Promoted sidebar promoted post thumbnail Non-traditional wedding photographers in Ottawa or the surrounding
area? r/ottawa • 9mo ago Non-traditional wedding photographers in Ottawa or the surrounding area? 12 upvotes · 24 comments Brides, what do you wish was offered with your wedding
photography package but wasn't? r/WeddingPhotography • 11d ago Brides, what do you wish was offered with your wedding photography package but wasn't? 14 upvotes · 66 comments
Professional Wedding Photographers r/Belfast • 1y ago Professional Wedding Photographers 7 upvotes · 26 comments Unpopular opinion: A lot of “luxury wedding photography” is just
average photography wrapped in expensive styling. r/WeddingPhotography • 10mo ago Unpopular opinion: A lot of “luxury wedding photography” is just average photography wrapped in
expensive styling. 274 upvotes · 98 comments What’s the average everyone is spending on wedding photography? r/weddingplanning • 2y ago What’s the average everyone is spending on
wedding photography? 27 upvotes · 148 comments Promoted sidebar promoted post thumbnail Highest paying LDPs - fashion, luxury or beauty? r/MBA • 2y ago Highest paying LDPs -
fashion, luxury or beauty? 40 upvotes · 52 comments wedding photographer r/vancouver • 3y ago wedding photographer 1 upvote · 18 comments Struggling to Find My Photography Niche –
Love Weddings but Less Interested in Directing People r/WeddingPhotography • 5mo ago Struggling to Find My Photography Niche – Love Weddings but Less Interested in Directing People
25 upvotes · 33 comments Wedding photographers, what insurance are we using these days? r/WeddingPhotography • 3mo ago Wedding photographers, what insurance are we using these
days? 8 upvotes · 31 comments What are the good and bad models of travel trailer? (20'-30', $13k or less) r/RVLiving • 2y ago What are the good and bad models of travel trailer?
(20'-30', $13k or less) 15 comments Request : wedding photographer + video June 2025 r/Switzerland • 1y ago Request : wedding photographer + video June 2025 30 comments How did you
get started in wedding photography? r/WeddingPhotography • 2mo ago How did you get started in wedding photography? 5 upvotes · 48 comments Wedding photographer recommendations in
LA? r/WeddingPhotography • 5y ago Wedding photographer recommendations in LA? 1 upvote · 21 comments how did your wedding day change your perspective on wedding photography?
r/WeddingPhotography • 1mo ago how did your wedding day change your perspective on wedding photography? 19 upvotes · 37 comments Any recommendations for wedding photographers?
r/Seattle • 1y ago Any recommendations for wedding photographers? 9 comments How long do you plan to continue to be a Wedding Photographer? r/WeddingPhotography • 3mo ago How long
do you plan to continue to be a Wedding Photographer? 42 upvotes · 59 comments Wedding photographer? r/londonontario • 3y ago Wedding photographer? 1 upvote · 42 comments Wedding
Photographers r/Sacramento • 2y ago Wedding Photographers 4 upvotes · 12 comments New Jersey Wedding Photographers r/WeddingPhotography • 4y ago New Jersey Wedding Photographers 52
comments No photographer at wedding, am I crazy? r/wedding • 2y ago No photographer at wedding, am I crazy? 28 upvotes · 62 comments Recommendations for Great Wedding/Engagement
Photographers in the area? r/SanJose • 3y ago Recommendations for Great Wedding/Engagement Photographers in the area? 14 upvotes · 16 comments Reddit Wedding Photographer Directory
[Quarterly] r/WeddingPhotography • 6d ago Reddit Wedding Photographer Directory [Quarterly] 21 upvotes · 118 comments View Post in हिन्दी 日本語 Português (Brasil) Tiếng Việt 简体中文 See
more Community Info Section r/WeddingPhotography Join Wedding photography This is the home of the wedding photographer community on Reddit and the place for wedding photographers,
second photographers, assistants, and those aspiring to be wedding photographers. This is a discussion based community and the place to share experiences, business insight,
creative ideas about our work, and more. Show more Public Top Posts Reddit reReddit: Top posts of April 17, 2024 Reddit reReddit: Top posts of April 2024 Reddit reReddit: Top posts
of 2024 Reddit Rules Privacy Policy User Agreement Your Privacy Choices Accessibility Reddit, Inc. © 2026. All rights reserved. Collapse Navigation Skip to main content What is a
luxury wedding photographer? : r/WeddingPhotography r/WeddingPhotography Search in r/WeddingPhotography Get App Log In Expand user menu Skip to NavigationSkip to Right Sidebar Back
Go to WeddingPhotography r/WeddingPhotography • 3mo ago Brilliant-East794 What is a luxury wedding photographer? general topic This is not meant to throw shade- it's a real
question. When I go to their sites it's about 80 percent staged or studio couples and bridal portraiture, (are they real brides even?) 15 percent still life's of cakes and flowers,
a couple of hero shots of the room, and one dancing picture. I'm not sure if luxury means they charge 20k and offer full service- like thank you cards, prints, albums, online
galleries, negatives, video, second shooters? What am I missing? Thanks! Upvote 51 Downvote 41 Go to comments Share u/Colgate_US avatar Colgate_US • Promoted Get ready to WOW.
Brush your way to a brighter smile with Colgate Optic White Pro Series. Shop Now shop.mikmak.ai Clickable image which will reveal the video player: Get ready to WOW. Brush your way
to a brighter smile with Colgate Optic White Pro Series. Collapse video player 0:00 / 0:00 Join the conversation Sort by: Best Search Comments Expand comment search Comments
Section u/iamthesam2 avatar iamthesam2 MOD • 3mo ago • Stickied comment this really should be in the official Ask A Wedding Photographer thread, but the autobot isn’t reposting it
for some reason. Also, this is something I’ve wondered myself for a while lol UpvoteVote Downvote Reply Award Share u/YourMajesty90 avatar YourMajesty90 • 3mo ago Basically means
“I’m not going to shoot your farm wedding” u/evanrphoto avatar evanrphoto • 3mo ago • Edited 3mo ago It doesn’t mean anything. The usage of the term “Luxury wedding photographer”
has become a marketing angle as “luxury” has become an aesthetic. There are photographers who are well established photographing high end/big budget weddings and they don’t like
using this term. Although some do begrudgingly, just because certain clientele expect it. It’s a bit like when I see a plumber or contractor calling themselves “professional
plumber” etc. If you have to call yourself “professional” it actually cheapens the reputation and ironically brings into question the experience and professionalism.
u/taylorjonesphoto avatar taylorjonesphoto • 3mo ago • Edited 3mo ago Kind of like if a restaurant has to state it's "authentic". 1 more reply u/Seaguard5 avatar Seaguard5 • 3mo
ago It’s 100% marketing. celebrate_everything • 3mo ago This. [deleted] • 3mo ago u/Zola avatar u/Zola • Promoted If planning your wedding feels like a second job…we’re here to
help. From your wedding website and RSVPs to your registry and guest updates, it’s *all* in one place. Set it up in minutes at Zola.com. If planning your wedding feels like a
second job…we’re here to help. From your wedding website and RSVPs to your registry and guest updates, it’s *all* in one place. Set it up in minutes at Zola.com. If planning your
wedding feels like a second job…we’re here to help. From your wedding website and RSVPs to your registry and guest updates, it’s *all* in one place. Set it up in minutes at
Zola.com. welcome.zola.com Sign Up AllricMulled • 3mo ago They’ll have like $20k on their website and then when you enquire they’ll say “nah I’ll do it for $5k” then you think
you’re getting a huge discount 🤣 morosehuman • 3mo ago Oh wow I wouldn’t even inquire with anyone at that cost so they are weeding out potential clients if the 20k is not truly
their price MonochromaticMostly • 3mo ago Yup Unique_Tomatillo2307 • 3mo ago I feel like it's kinda normal to increase your prices as your skill level and experience go up, most of
the photogs in this group do that. The ones that end up crazy expensive and have the niche of expensive, beautiful, decor heavy weddings with beautiful clients, who balance very
solid traditional /timeless pics with a teeny dash of modernity, and edit in a clean, timeless style, are 'luxury photographers'. It's that simple for me. Tons of decor pics on
their site because they have close relationships with high end coordinators, have to be good at photographing expensive wedding items and locations and I would imagine like what
they do so showcase that. And ridiculously beautiful portraits because they photograph beautiful couples. Importantly they very rarely do weird shit (even if they are more than
capable of beautiful creative work, see J and Js in the mood for love engagement shoot) Anna/ooh.ginger clearly states that she is NOT a luxury photographer (even though she is
shooting at venues that host luxury weddings) I don't remember the words she used but I think along the lines of high-end fashion forward weddings. And then of course there are
photogs that just slap 'luxury' on their website cus it's a trend. At the most simple level, a luxury photographer is just someone who has the portfolio and experience required to
be hired for and successfully (ie happy clients) shoot a luxury wedding. The catch 22 is that unless you've already photographed a luxury wedding, you're unlikely to be hired to
shoot a luxury wedding! EcstaticEnnui • 3mo ago If they haven’t done it, they pay for styled shoots and workshops that just reinforce the bland sameness of the “luxury” genre.
etcetceteraetcetc • 3mo ago Ever been to new york? Every pizza spot is "NEW YORK'S BEST PIZZA" 1 more reply StatisticallyQuiet • 3mo ago I guess it's the experience. A photographer
that won't make you look bad. Some photographers will come to your wedding in leggings and a black t-shirt for comfort, others will come in a nice dress. They'll know how to talk
to rich people, etc. u/ny_AU avatar ny_AU • 3mo ago I think “know how to talk to rich people” is the key here u/honeybook avatar u/honeybook • Promoted HoneyBook helps small
businesses look as professional as they operate — now 25% off for a limited time only! Sign Up honeybook.com Thumbnail image: HoneyBook helps small businesses look as professional
as they operate — now 25% off for a limited time only! EcstaticEnnui • 3mo ago The word “luxury” when used by wedding vendors these days seems to actually mean “mid-market.” These
people aren’t extremely expensive, the actual top of the market “luxury” vendors wouldn’t use that word. The photographers that use the word “luxury” are very much attempting to
climb the ladder towards taking more higher end weddings. They are probably attempting to distinguish themselves from budget or high volume studios, because they want to be able to
make a living with fewer weddings per year. The good news is that someone marketing themselves as “luxury” should be thinking very carefully about their client experience. They’re
likely going to take care to really make their client happy and produce some really impressively beautiful images. The downside can be that while chasing the “luxury” look, many
photographers pay to photograph “styled shoots” set up by others to appear like an expensive wedding (lots of florals, professional models, impractical details). If this is all
that’s in their portfolio, be sure to ask for a few full galleries of weddings they’ve to see what their actual skill level is when they’re shooting a real wedding. Basically, you
can ignore this word. If the price is amenable and the photos (especially full galleries) are what you’re looking for, it doesn’t matter what words they use to market themselves.
AuthenticChili • 3mo ago Apparently every photographer on instagram. [deleted] • 3mo ago I think it’s not about the photography. It’s just photographers who come from a similar
background as the people who hire them or who know some important people. It’s the networking and the service that is more about show and shine Blinktoe • 3mo ago A lot of people I
think put it there to market b2b (courses, presets, etc.) Understanding how large luxury weddings work. someone who photographs beautifully without extra things in the frame,
mdmoon2101 • 3mo ago It’s marketing, plain and simple. The only reason a wedding photographer can make $20K per wedding is because of relationships with planners who work with
clients who have that budget. It’s all referral at that point. And it has NOTHING to do with the actual talent of the photographer or even the professionalism of the experience
that they provide. u/tripleaw avatar tripleaw • 3mo ago Hard disagree, have seen plenty of full galleries of photographers who charge 20-30k or even 50k and above. They all have
incredibly strong portfolios to back up that pricing (with some exceptions ofc) 1 more reply New to Reddit? Create your account and connect with a world of communities. Continue
With Phone Number By continuing, you agree to our User Agreement and acknowledge that you understand the Privacy Policy. Related Answers Section Related Answers Definition of
luxury wedding photography High-end wedding photography recommendations Celebrity wedding photographer insights Best wedding photographers in Chicago Top wedding photographers in
the world More posts you may like What is a good beginner camera recommendation for someone looking into wedding photography? r/AskPhotography • 5mo ago What is a good beginner
camera recommendation for someone looking into wedding photography? 34 comments Unpopular opinion: A lot of “luxury wedding photography” is just average photography wrapped in
expensive styling. r/WeddingPhotography • 10mo ago Unpopular opinion: A lot of “luxury wedding photography” is just average photography wrapped in expensive styling. 274 upvotes ·
98 comments how did your wedding day change your perspective on wedding photography? r/WeddingPhotography • 1mo ago how did your wedding day change your perspective on wedding
