Your Privacy Choices Accessibility Reddit, Inc. © 2026. All rights reserved. Collapse Navigation Skip to main content Unpopular opinion: A lot of “luxury wedding photography” is
just average photography wrapped in expensive styling. : r/WeddingPhotography r/WeddingPhotography Search in r/WeddingPhotography Get App Log In Expand user menu Skip to
NavigationSkip to Right Sidebar Back Go to WeddingPhotography r/WeddingPhotography • 10mo ago Toncxxxy Unpopular opinion: A lot of “luxury wedding photography” is just average
photography wrapped in expensive styling. general topic I’ve seen a fair share of weddings featured in Vogue and similar platforms – and honestly, many of those galleries would
look entirely average if you stripped away the designer dress, floral arch, and the expensive venue The composition and light is Basic. But the setting does the heavy lifting. What
does this tell us? That “luxury” in wedding photography is often more about access and positioning than about actual skill behind the camera. Sure there are good photographers with
Great skills but majority of photos are venue, decor, details and portraits with direct or side light. No silouethess or interesting composition or perspectives. Probably there is,
but most od the work is very Basic. If you know your light, framing, and timing – and you manage to break into the high-end market – you can call yourself a “luxury photographer.”
It’s less about shooting better, and more about shooting in better places with clients who already bring the wow factor. To put it simply: a $100 watch shows the same time as a
$10,000 one – it’s the branding and context that change everything. Curious to hear how others feel about this. My goal is to hear opinions Upvote 274 Downvote 98 Go to comments
Share u/Colgate_US avatar Colgate_US • Promoted Get ready to WOW. Brush your way to a brighter smile with Colgate Optic White Pro Series. Shop Now shop.mikmak.ai Clickable image
which will reveal the video player: Get ready to WOW. Brush your way to a brighter smile with Colgate Optic White Pro Series. Collapse video player 0:00 / 0:00 Join the
conversation Sort by: Best Search Comments Expand comment search Comments Section u/Apprehensive-Day6190 avatar Apprehensive-Day6190 • 10mo ago I USED to agree, but I don’t think
this is entirely true anymore. I dipped my toe in just a few higher end weddings (not even super luxury), and discovered that I can’t quite handle the PRESSURE in that kind of
market. It’s almost an entirely different job than it is working in low, mid, or even upper-mid range weddings, with a whole new set of skills and job requirements needed. The
luxury experience you have to provide is entirely elevated, and not everyone is set-up or prepared to provide it, and I don’t just mean doing a good job with consult calls, prep,
the photos themselves, and being nice and on top of things. More than that, the SALES and networking skills needed to get there and stay there are completely different and not
something everyone has in them. I mean really providing a champagne, Gucci experience from top to bottom. Spending a LOT more on overhead, too. Luxury branding, LUXURY client
gifts, etc, only the tip of the iceberg. But also, an entirely diffferent experience working with luxury PLANNERS and not just keeping up, but knowing how to IMPRESS them to even
get and then stay at that level. Not JUST pretty photos, not JUST good composition, but all of that has to really impress on top of all of the rest of it. it’s easy to pick apart
the skills of the photographers that are there and think “I could take better photos than these.” But could you really? What’s missing then? Why are YOU shooting those weddings and
those venues? Why can’t YOU book those if you want to? Because I guarantee it’s not just a popularity contest, but even if it were, that would still be something you could be
missing and that in itself is even a skill. Blinktoe • 10mo ago You also very simply have to be an agreeable person to be around. 3 more replies u/miiiiikeshinoda avatar
miiiiikeshinoda • 10mo ago POV: You’ve just discovered branding and marketing samesamediffernt • 10mo ago The higher you go the more it’s about your soft skills Livin_da_dream71 •
10mo ago Photography is a learned skill. I can teach anyone how to photograph a wedding day. Many photographers dont need photography school. They need CHARM SCHOOL evil_newton •
10mo ago This is exactly it. People (including OP) think that the difference between mid tier photography and high end photography is the skill as a photographer. Most people
shooting mid tier should be able to shoot 90% or more of the shots a luxury photographer shoots. The difference is all in the experience for the client. The relationships,
attitudes, being easy to work with, knowing when to be there and when to be invisible. u/ShutterFI avatar ShutterFI • 10mo ago Tough take - with the increase in quality of cameras
and the technology they offer (high dynamic range, eye auto focus, etc) along with editing software changes - the difference between luxury and normal is getting smaller.
Significantly smaller. Example: • Years ago, it took considerable skill and practice to shoot at 1.2 (say, on an 85 1.2) and nail focus. This is no longer the case with eye auto
focus. It is now laughably easy to nail focus at any aperture. • Years ago, if you didn’t have the proper lighting on the shoot, there was no recovery. Now, you can literally make
it look like you had a softbox with you when you had no lighting at all by using software & the image files’ high dynamic range • Years ago, if you didn’t nail the shot in camera,
there wasn’t a ton you could do. It was like putting lipstick on a pig. Now, almost every image (except for ones blown out) can be salvaged to such a degree that it looks
professional So, what’s left to differentiate luxury from ‘normal’ photographers? Rapport with clients, experience for clients, and maybe the poses if the photographer is into
portraits. If both photographers are into candids, the difference may be smaller. The difference then goes to framing, having ‘the eye,’ and consistency. But, seriously, the actual
differences are getting smaller than they were 5-8 years ago. If the photographers have the same gear (or similar gear), they can now get similar shots - either in-camera or in
post. This is coming from someone who has photographed mostly high-end clients for the past ~15 years (and been photographing for 20+ years). We normally shoot old money - driving
clubs, yacht clubs, country clubs, etc. Oh, and photos in Vogue, Grace Ormonde, etc, have always been like what you describe. Photos in there aren’t always representative of a good
photographer. They literally just care about the look of the couple/model, and the decor. That’s it. They aren’t looking at the photograph quality - they are looking at the content
within the photo. There’s a big difference. Last note - for us, photographing ‘high end’ weddings is far easier than shooting middle of the road weddings. You’re right - luxury
decor just makes the photographs look better. There’s more in the foreground and background to work with. The photos just look better. Now, there’s higher expectations from vendors
to photograph all of the decor. However, it’s usually just easier. Any aperture you choose it looks good. Also, the higher end crowd (and this is a generality), tend to look nicer
as well - nicer hair & makeup, nicer gowns, well groomed in general, typically more fit/in shape, and typically taller (it’s weird, this is absolutely a thing). Aka, they’re
pretty, the venue is pretty, the dress is stunning ($$$), they grew up going to social events, etc. There’s a lot to it, but, in general, they’ll just come across as nicer in
general for a variety of these reasons. Hope this helps. 1 more reply u/AxonbyAppLovin avatar u/AxonbyAppLovin • Promoted Profitable advertising made simple Profitable advertising
made simple Profitable advertising made simple Profitable advertising made simple Profitable advertising made simple Profitable advertising made simple Profitable advertising made
simple axon.ai Learn More [deleted] • 10mo ago [deleted] • 10mo ago This doesn’t account for the added pressure of working in that space and its expectations for perfection.
Sometimes that manifests as simple, clean, elegance. u/GazelleLow4623 avatar GazelleLow4623 • 10mo ago I actually agree with a lot of what you’re saying here. Many luxury weddings
do look pretty average if you take away the styling, the venue, and all the fancy stuff. The setting does a lot of the work. But I also think it’s important to remember that
getting into these circles and staying there is not easy. It’s not just about shooting, you need to know how to behave, fit in, and make people trust you. High-end clients expect
you to be discreet, professional, and someone they feel comfortable with. That’s a big part of it too. And yeah, you see this in other arts too. Fashion shoots can look great just
because of the model and the designer dress. Interior photography can rely too much on expensive architecture. Some big-name artists get museum shows that would feel boring
anywhere else. Even pop songs with huge production can hide weak songwriting. So I get your point, the context makes a huge difference, but there’s more to it than just taking
photos. Good topic, thanks for sharing! kaumaron • 10mo ago That's the definition of most luxury items u/JW_Photographer avatar JW_Photographer • 10mo ago I think most
photographers know this to be true. I guess I get caught up with what "average" photography means. Most of the photographers shooting high end weddings are, at the very least,
"good photographers". The problem being that the vast majority of photographers aren't even that. So I'm not sure it's fair to say they are just "average" photographers. I know
this statement might seem a little contrary but I think high end shooters get too much flack for "not even being that good". That is just petty jealousy. The truth is most high end
shooters are good photographers that are VERY good at marketing and putting in the hard work to get to where they are. u/Grailzee avatar u/Grailzee • Promoted No Waitlist: Your
Dream Rolex is Available Now 2025 Rolex Yacht-Master 40MM Black Dial Rubber Strap (126655) 2025 Rolex Yacht-Master 40MM Black Dial Rubber Strap (126655) $36,000.00 2017 Rolex
Sky-Dweller 42MM Blue Dial Oyster Bracelet (326934) 2017 Rolex Sky-Dweller 42MM Blue Dial Oyster Bracelet (326934) $23,500.00 Rolex Cellini "King Midas" 27MM Champagne Dial Yellow
Gold Bracelet (4609) Rolex Cellini "King Midas" 27MM Champagne Dial Yellow Gold Bracelet (4609) $53,000.00 2024 Rolex Cosmograph Daytona "Le Mans" 40MM Black Dial Yellow Gold
Oyster Bracelet (126528LN) 2024 Rolex Cosmograph Daytona "Le Mans" 40MM Black Dial Yellow Gold Oyster Bracelet (126528LN) $245,000.00 2000 Rolex Day-Date 36MM Ice Blue Dial
Platinum President Bracelet (118206) 2000 Rolex Day-Date 36MM Ice Blue Dial Platinum President Bracelet (118206) $29,280.00 2021 Rolex Cosmograph Daytona 40MM Black Dial Rubber
Strap (116515LN) 2021 Rolex Cosmograph Daytona 40MM Black Dial Rubber Strap (116515LN) $41,000.00 u/iamjapho avatar iamjapho • 10mo ago Some of us may feel like that’s a demeaning
thing to say but it’s 100% correct. The value of our product rests mostly on the brand. It follows the same marketing conventions as all other luxury goods and targets the exact
same demographic. As you point out a Casio tells the time just as well as a Patek. Yet as bad as it sounds, most of my clients would rather go without telling the time before
wearing a Casio. True, my photographs don’t have the cure to cancer, but my clients don’t just want photographs. They also want the experience, before, during and after their day.
They want to make their day part of the studio’s story. They want the logo on the packaging and the unboxing experience. Their decision is made almost exclusively at an emotional
level. It is intangible and free of the common monetary constraints. 6 more replies u/ohphotog avatar ohphotog • 10mo ago I think this is very true. I think even when someone is
actually good at doing wedding photography they might struggle to find clients if they are terrible at branding and marketing! u/Upsidedown0310 avatar Upsidedown0310 • 10mo ago
Hard agree. Wedding with a beautiful venue, huge budget, and a conventionally attractive couple are easy to photograph. Not to say that there isn’t any skill involved but it
absolutely makes the job easier! u/severus_snapshot avatar severus_snapshot • 10mo ago I don't even think this is an unpopular opinion. It's facts. Two different skills. There's
being a good photographer and then there's being a really successful photographer. Having the skill to network and build your brand to the point of getting CONSIDERED for certain
gigs and projects is a skill onto itself. Just like how there are youtube/IG photogs with tons of followers and the work isn't even amazing. Just a different skill they have gotten
great at and frankly should be respected for because it's not something everyone can do. I have gotten and lost opportunities to networks (the competitor being a little more
connected to the decision-maker). It's never just about the skill. 1 more reply pleione82 • 10mo ago This is why I’m happy not being a luxury photographer. I know I don’t have the
social finessing to be in that market. It’s less about the skill and more about who you know in that market. I’m okay being a regular person photographer. 1 more reply
u/cheritransnaps avatar cheritransnaps • 10mo ago Sure. But then there are those whose work who are truly great like John Dolan and Perry Vaile and Samm Blake. Whenever a photo
from Samm Blake or John flashes through my instagram before i even see their names im totally drawn in. As to vogue, that’s the publishers highlighting fashionable couples more
than the photogs 2 more replies Zorbaxxxx • 10mo ago I don’t think it’s an unpopular opinion 😂 The whole luxury segment (not just wedding photography) is based purely on
marketing/connection and endorsement to twist the perceived value, nothing more. 1 more reply u/KaleidoscopeFine avatar KaleidoscopeFine • 10mo ago 100% agree. In my area, wedding
photographer will charge you $6000 a session simply because they have that bohemian style preset that they use for every photo. It makes everything look olive green and light
orange. It’s very weird. Why would you want your wedding photos to have this random filter on them? That looks nothing like your actual skin color ? And you have them for the rest
of your life. And you think it’s a luxury? depwine • 10mo ago Can't wait for that particular editing style to die out. God damn mumford and sons vibe in 2025. 2 more replies
u/ComparisonTerrible11 avatar ComparisonTerrible11 • 10mo ago I’ve made a couple of great friends who are also wedding photographers and we always said this, you can shoot a trendy
photogenic couple that’s clearly comfortable in front of a camera next to a dumpster in an NYC alley and the blogs would eat that photo up, while some of your best technical work
can be done with your every day bride and groom and it’ll never get the same traction….thats just the ugly truth about wedding photography tbh. Powerful_Spinach_299 • 10mo ago 100%
True. Average photography of nice looking things and people is just winning nowadays. I mainly shoot photos in weddings, kind of in the upper mid zone and on occasion shoot video
to help out buddies. I once worked alongside a popular so called luxury photographer and her client experience on the day was so lax. She turned up late to the getting ready in her
Porsche, the takeaway coffee cup in hand that made her late and her choices for where to light the subjects was just ridiculous. She was tapping to focus and shoot on the touch
screen with the focus confirmation beep screaming its tits off constantly just machine spraying shots constantly of the same pose for 20 minutes straight. Even was rude to other
suppliers and had zero camera awareness for video. After working with her a couple of years down the track she did not improve. I honestly don’t know how they can run a business
and charge stupid money. The timeline wasn’t confirmed by her until 10pm the night before after I was working on mine 2 months before. They didn’t even remotely line up. Doesn’t
even post to socials so I have no idea how she gets work. 3 more replies New to Reddit? Create your account and connect with a world of communities. Continue With Phone Number By
continuing, you agree to our User Agreement and acknowledge that you understand the Privacy Policy. Related Answers Section Related Answers Best wedding photographers to consider
Unique wedding photography styles to explore Tips for capturing candid moments at weddings How to create a stunning wedding portfolio More posts you may like Parents don’t think I
can make a living doing wedding photography. r/WeddingPhotography • 3y ago Parents don’t think I can make a living doing wedding photography. 8 upvotes · 24 comments What is a
luxury wedding photographer? r/WeddingPhotography • 3mo ago What is a luxury wedding photographer? 51 upvotes · 41 comments Brides, what do you wish was offered with your wedding
photography package but wasn't? r/WeddingPhotography • 11d ago Brides, what do you wish was offered with your wedding photography package but wasn't? 14 upvotes · 66 comments
Promoted sidebar promoted post thumbnail Professional/Luxury Wedding Album Recommendations r/WeddingPhotography • 7d ago Professional/Luxury Wedding Album Recommendations 7 upvotes
· 25 comments Struggling to Find My Photography Niche – Love Weddings but Less Interested in Directing People r/WeddingPhotography • 5mo ago Struggling to Find My Photography Niche
– Love Weddings but Less Interested in Directing People 25 upvotes · 33 comments The sad realization that being a wedding photographer no longer pays the bills...
r/WeddingPhotography • 10mo ago The sad realization that being a wedding photographer no longer pays the bills... 158 upvotes · 161 comments How can I view a lot of high-quality
portrait photographs for inspiration? r/photography • 2y ago How can I view a lot of high-quality portrait photographs for inspiration? 16 comments Wedding photographers: How has
tracking eye AF changed your experience? r/photography • 3d ago Wedding photographers: How has tracking eye AF changed your experience? 41 upvotes · 34 comments Promoted sidebar
promoted post thumbnail Why is everyone suddenly a “fine art” wedding photographer? r/WeddingPhotography • 4y ago Why is everyone suddenly a “fine art” wedding photographer? 31
upvotes · 74 comments Small things that feel luxurious at a wedding? r/weddingplanning • 7d ago Small things that feel luxurious at a wedding? 24 upvotes · 51 comments A Requested
Luxury Wedding Breakdown [Long] r/weddingplanning • 8y ago A Requested Luxury Wedding Breakdown [Long] 150 upvotes · 31 comments Fancy Friday: What is the most extravagant wedding
you have ever been to? What things did you learn and carry into your wedding planning? Calling all guest perspectives! r/weddingplanning • 8y ago Fancy Friday: What is the most
extravagant wedding you have ever been to? What things did you learn and carry into your wedding planning? Calling all guest perspectives! 50 upvotes · 35 comments How do i break
into Wedding Photography? r/WeddingPhotography • 1y ago How do i break into Wedding Photography? 2 upvotes · 17 comments What’s the average everyone is spending on wedding
photography? r/weddingplanning • 2y ago What’s the average everyone is spending on wedding photography? 27 upvotes · 148 comments Do wedding photographers get clients from
Pinterest? r/WeddingPhotography • 9d ago Do wedding photographers get clients from Pinterest? 9 upvotes · 20 comments how did your wedding day change your perspective on wedding
photography? r/WeddingPhotography • 1mo ago how did your wedding day change your perspective on wedding photography? 19 upvotes · 37 comments Wedding Photography Package Options
r/WeddingPhotography • 2y ago Wedding Photography Package Options 8 upvotes · 19 comments Unpopular opinion: A lot of “luxury wedding photography” is just average photography
wrapped in expensive styling. r/photography • 10mo ago Unpopular opinion: A lot of “luxury wedding photography” is just average photography wrapped in expensive styling. 593
upvotes · 156 comments Best Beginner Budget-Friendly Wedding Photography Camera r/WeddingPhotography • 2y ago Best Beginner Budget-Friendly Wedding Photography Camera 3 upvotes ·
45 comments Wedding photographers, what insurance are we using these days? r/WeddingPhotography • 3mo ago Wedding photographers, what insurance are we using these days? 8 upvotes ·
31 comments How long do you plan to continue to be a Wedding Photographer? r/WeddingPhotography • 3mo ago How long do you plan to continue to be a Wedding Photographer? 42 upvotes
· 59 comments Has real critique in wedding photography disappeared?" r/photography • 10mo ago Has real critique in wedding photography disappeared?" 32 upvotes · 62 comments
Impostor syndrome is killing my wedding photography business before it even starts – need advice r/WeddingPhotography • 23d ago Impostor syndrome is killing my wedding photography
business before it even starts – need advice 14 upvotes · 25 comments New to Professional Wedding Photography: Which camera do you recommend? r/WeddingPhotography • 3mo ago New to
Professional Wedding Photography: Which camera do you recommend? 27 comments Shot a wedding for the first time. How do you all do this weekly? r/WeddingPhotography • 7mo ago Shot a
wedding for the first time. How do you all do this weekly? 55 upvotes · 46 comments View Post in Русский हिन्दी 简体中文 日本語 See more Community Info Section r/WeddingPhotography Join
Wedding photography This is the home of the wedding photographer community on Reddit and the place for wedding photographers, second photographers, assistants, and those aspiring
to be wedding photographers. This is a discussion based community and the place to share experiences, business insight, creative ideas about our work, and more. Show more Public
Top Posts Reddit reReddit: Top posts of July 4, 2025 Reddit reReddit: Top posts of July 2025 Reddit reReddit: Top posts of 2025 Reddit Rules Privacy Policy User Agreement Your
Privacy Choices Accessibility Reddit, Inc. © 2026. All rights reserved. Collapse Navigation Skip to main content Do luxury wedding photographers need to hide their personality to
be seen as high-end? : r/WeddingPhotography r/WeddingPhotography Search in r/WeddingPhotography Get App Log In Expand user menu Skip to NavigationSkip to Right Sidebar Back Go to
WeddingPhotography r/WeddingPhotography • 1y ago Vodavodal Do luxury wedding photographers need to hide their personality to be seen as high-end? business, marketing, social media
I recently photographed a 3-day luxury wedding. After the cameras were off, I joined the couple and their friends for a private celebration – cocktails, dancing, laughter. I filmed
a few casual clips for Close Friends (nothing wild), just to show the human side behind the lens. A teammate told me: “Luxury photographers don’t post things like that. It breaks
the illusion.” I’m torn. I value storytelling and honesty. But I also understand the need for curation. How do you walk that line between authenticity and luxury? Would you share
post-wedding personal moments – even in Close Friends? Upvote 43 Downvote 47 Go to comments Share Join the conversation Sort by: Best Search Comments Expand comment search Comments
Section Salty_Thing3144 • 1y ago I think that's crap. Nobody wants to deal with a cold, snooty vendor either Upvote 21 Downvote Reply Award Share derno • 1y ago We’ve found most
people want to know the people who are intimately involved with their wedding day. It makes the day easier if you can hang with your vendors that basically follow you around all
day. Truth is, it’s your business. What you post will attract people who value that Upvote 20 Downvote Reply Award Share [deleted] • 1y ago u/stu-2-u avatar stu-2-u • 1y ago I have
a problem with the word luxury when self-describing brand identity. I’ve been guilty of it, so I don’t want to sound judgmental. To me, when I hear luxury I just hear expensive.
Or, similar to being famous for being famous. I found when I asked myself what was so luxury about my service, I was really looking at increase in value. Sounds like you might have
provided extra value for your clients. Posting it on social media may be seen as self serving and pulling focus from the wedding. It would feel more genuine if that kind of video
was just shared with the bride and groom rather than content for your audience. But, without seeing the video in context it is a speculation. I’m sure a 3-day wedding wants to be
seen so as long as your clients are happy… 3 more replies u/theasphalt avatar theasphalt • 1y ago Ignore the teammate. People hire your brand, so if your brand is you being that
person, be that person. We got hired for our photos, but the idea of working with us was right there. 10 more replies u/NikonShooter_PJS avatar NikonShooter_PJS • 1y ago I've
always lived by the mantra of show what you want to grow. I'm the exact opposite of a luxury wedding photographer. I target middle class, casual, laid back weddings and most of my
clients are DIY style folks with blue collar wedding days. That means a lot of backyard tent weddings, rustic barn weddings and non-traditional days. But it also means my weddings,
for the most part, are really fucking fun. So I show that throughout my marketing. A lot. Because it's why I want to attract from future clients. The people looking at my website
on their couch on a Saturday night are either going to identify with my photos and say "That looks like exactly what I want!" and reach out or they're going to think it looks cheap
and tacky and move along. Which I am eternally grateful for. I don't think you necessarily need to "hide" your personality if you're a luxury wedding photographer but you need to
put yourself in the shoes of your prospective clients and what they're thinking and looking for BEFORE they hire you. It's one thing to earn the trust of your current clients and
celebrate their day with them because they know you. But you have to think about the people who are researching you as a prospective client and what their mindset might be as they
browse for vendors. If you think they'll like seeing the fun side of you, showcase it. If you think it will be a hinderance, not a help, don't show it. Only you know who your
clients are and how they find their way to you. Silver_Rms91 • 1y ago • Edited 1y ago Seems your teammate was a little bit salty for not being there😂😂😂 AccordingPen2780 • 1y ago
that’s what I was thinking 🤣 GimmeDatSideHug • 1y ago What’s the illusion supposed to be? That you’re just a photo-taking robot? I think most people want a photographer they feel
comfortable around. u/Vodavodal avatar Vodavodal OP • 1y ago That’s my thought also, but maybe I’m just in my bubble 🫣 [deleted] • 1y ago My wife has a luxury wedding photography
business, but I shoot with her when people want a second, and people ask for me by name because of the reviews about how well my wife and I shoot together. Our personalities sell.
If my wife isn’t available on a date, people will ask if I am. Maybe that keeps us from shooting a billionaire’s or a celebrity’s weddings, but I already feel like we are at poking
at the income ceiling, so I’m not worried. And I have a ton of fun. If people don’t want us, I don’t want them. 1 more reply u/amlbot_team avatar u/amlbot_team • Promoted Crypto
wallet drained? Review what can be traced Learn More amlbot.com Thumbnail image: Crypto wallet drained? Review what can be traced rmric0 • 1y ago Some people are definitely able to
make their personality and energy a part of their branding. I think it's like any other kind of business - you can make somethign that everyone will kind of like or you can make
something that a few people will absolutely love. Both can be viable strategies but they won't work for everyone [deleted] • 1y ago You do you, its only wrong till someone makes it
work or breaks tradition and is successful u/iamrobmorales avatar iamrobmorales • 1y ago Just because they are your teammate doesn’t mean they are on your side. [deleted] • 1y ago
lost_in_adhdland • 1y ago I had one stance going in but it changed when I saw about the “partying/ drinking” part. I was gonna say definitely show off your personality! It’s what
makes you unique and stand out. Luxury or not, it’s about experience and I think people will recommend you more if you are creating a fun experience. On the other hand I do agree
that showing your personality and joining the party are two separate things. Even if it is after you are done working, you are still on site/ with the client and potential future
clients. I think it’s unprofessional to be drinking in front of either, unless you are joining in on champagne toast or something and have one glass. If these are your close
personal friends that happened to hire you, then that’s different, you’re just celebrating with your friends when your work is done. I think you do you, but no matter your age I
think there needs to be the professionalism of staying sober and that isn’t the same as showing your personality. I do think BTS stuff Is cool and I like that this is a newish
aspect that’s becoming more popular. I think it makes you more approachable and “real”- just as a professional there is a line. The only other part is the “close friends” part so
if you’re sharing that kind of content with only your list of “close friends” so clients/ potential clients DON’T see that, then I think that can be fine, just again, another line.
It’s about creating a brand for yourself- so really it’s just about what do you want your brand be. u/lgdbtr avatar lgdbtr • 1y ago Nah, you’re good. I mean, if you’re demanding a
round of fireball shots at the bar, smoking cigs w the shady uncle, shirt unbuttoned and sweatily cutting up the dancefloor, that’s a different story. There is a way to party with
high end clients that they’d appreciate. And then there is the aforementioned. Keep it classy. u/linkedin avatar u/linkedin • Promoted A great career starts with a great game plan.
Up your career like Fernando Mendoza with LinkedIn. Learn More lnkd.in Clickable image which will reveal the video player: A great career starts with a great game plan. Up your
career like Fernando Mendoza with LinkedIn. Collapse video player 0:00 / 0:00 u/allienv avatar allienv • 1y ago I believe it has to do with the exposure. Although it being for
close friends that doesn’t really matter tbh. Usually people with a higher status don’t over share their lives, so in doing so you’re basically saying you’re not one of them or
that you have a different attitude then the one they would have. But I mean, if you shared because it makes sense for you, go for it. It doesn’t really matter what your colleague
says. u/nicolas_06 avatar nicolas_06 • 1y ago I think people have different styles and preference and your portfolio and work will show that and you'll get clients that like this
and its perfectly fine. YetAnotherBart • 1y ago What illusion? Really, some people have to get over themselves. hiker201 • 1y ago • Edited 1y ago Na, I always want to capture the
real couple, and how they really feel about each other. That’s hard enough to capture. I suppose if you’re a plastic person you don’t want that reality captured. Fortunately, I’ve
never had clients like that. I want my clients to say, That’s us! That’s how we were together! You really caught us! To me, that the most important thing. Some photographers I’m
sure are good at the poses and the set pieces. To me, that’s just posing. Adventurous_Load_534 • 1y ago Hmm interesting. I picked our photographer because her photos have tons of
personality and I was super sick of the status quo. At $15k I would def say she is high end. Was thrilled with every photo. u/LightPhotographer avatar LightPhotographer • 10mo ago
Your friend has a personal private opinion which is no absolute truth. You are both right. There is value in showing the person behind the scenes and there is value in professional
distance. You two simply put a different emphasis one one value over another. u/iamjapho avatar iamjapho • 1y ago Nah. Personality wise I amp it up and lean hard into it. But its
very healthy to break character once in a while. I’m not easy to love on the job and these people are not only going to have to pay me, but put up with my work avatar’s arrogant
ass sometimes for several days after it’s all said and done. There absolutely nothing wrong with loosening up the neck tie and showing that behind all the gloss lies a good’ol
human who’s shit stinks just like everyone else’s. New to Reddit? Create your account and connect with a world of communities. Continue With Phone Number By continuing, you agree
to our User Agreement and acknowledge that you understand the Privacy Policy. Related Answers Section Related Answers Unique wedding photography styles to explore To find unique
wedding photography styles, consider exploring options beyond traditional posed shots, focusing on authentic moments and personalized aesthetics. Embrace Candid & Documentary
Approaches Capture genuine emotions: Many Redditors recommend documentary or photojournalistic styles to capture the day's true essence and genuine interactions. "The focus is on
moments and feelings." Prioritize natural moments over staged shots: This style avoids constant posing, allowing the couple and guests to experience the day organically. "I
realized I didn't want to spend time setting up for a photo when that time could be spent with people, eating, etc." Ensure comprehensive coverage: Opting for a second shooter or
extended time helps ensure that both candid and editorial-style shots are captured effectively. "I would definitely recommend a second shooter if possible, they can help cover the
guests." Explore Diverse Editing Styles and Themes Consider "dark and moody" aesthetics: Some photographers specialize in a "dark and moody" editing style, which can give a unique
and dramatic feel to wedding photos. "I would consider this photographer's aesthetic as more dark + moody." Prioritize timelessness over trends: Be mindful that trendy filters or
heavily edited styles might not age well; many prefer a natural look that remains classic. "We always edit towards 'natural', that way the pictures will be truly timeless and not
subject to styles that are popular today but look outdated in 10 years." Inject personality with unconventional shoots: Don't shy away from incorporating unique themes or
locations, like a selfie museum, for engagement photos to reflect your personality. "If you and your so are a little less traditional, don't be afraid to do something different for
your engagement photos!" Professional Considerations Hire an experienced professional: Regardless of style, a skilled photographer is crucial for high-quality results; avoid
relying on amateurs for important events. "If you want professional looking photos, hire a professional." Clarify expectations and review full galleries: Always discuss your
preferred styles with potential photographers and review their complete wedding galleries to ensure their style aligns with your vision. "Ultimately, the only thing that matters is
whether the photos you got are consistent with the photographer's portfolio." Be aware that one photographer may not excel at all styles: While some photographers can deliver a
mix, it's often challenging for one person to master every style; prioritize the most important aspects for you. "I think you'll struggle to find somebody that will do it all, and
I'd be wary of somebody saying they can/will." Are you interested in exploring specific examples of these unique wedding photography styles? See Answer Tips for capturing candid
moments at weddings Best lenses for wedding photography How to create a stunning wedding portfolio Essential gear for wedding photographers More posts you may like Do luxury
wedding photographers need to hide their personality to be seen as high-end? r/weddings • 1y ago Do luxury wedding photographers need to hide their personality to be seen as
high-end? 1 upvote · 2 comments how did your wedding day change your perspective on wedding photography? r/WeddingPhotography • 1mo ago how did your wedding day change your
perspective on wedding photography? 19 upvotes · 37 comments Street Photography Feels Like Legal People-Watching With a Camera. What’s Your Line Between Art and Invasion?
r/photography • 1y ago Street Photography Feels Like Legal People-Watching With a Camera. What’s Your Line Between Art and Invasion? 21 comments Promoted sidebar promoted post
thumbnail Unpopular opinion: A lot of “luxury wedding photography” is just average photography wrapped in expensive styling. r/WeddingPhotography • 10mo ago Unpopular opinion: A
lot of “luxury wedding photography” is just average photography wrapped in expensive styling. 274 upvotes · 98 comments How much should I charge for a wedding film like this? This
is my second wedding film ever so I'm very new to the niche. r/videography • 2y ago How much should I charge for a wedding film like this? This is my second wedding film ever so
I'm very new to the niche. r/videography - How much should I charge for a wedding film like this? This is my second wedding film ever so I'm very new to the niche. youtu 122
upvotes · 84 comments What is a luxury wedding photographer? r/WeddingPhotography • 3mo ago What is a luxury wedding photographer? 51 upvotes · 41 comments Brides, what do you wish
was offered with your wedding photography package but wasn't? r/WeddingPhotography • 11d ago Brides, what do you wish was offered with your wedding photography package but wasn't?
14 upvotes · 66 comments Struggling to Find My Photography Niche – Love Weddings but Less Interested in Directing People r/WeddingPhotography • 5mo ago Struggling to Find My
Photography Niche – Love Weddings but Less Interested in Directing People 25 upvotes · 33 comments Promoted sidebar promoted post thumbnail How did you get started in wedding
photography? r/WeddingPhotography • 2mo ago How did you get started in wedding photography? 5 upvotes · 48 comments Are affordable wedding photographers a thing? r/madisonwi • 1y
ago Are affordable wedding photographers a thing? 4 upvotes · 36 comments How much do you think attractiveness matters in casting players? r/survivor • 1y ago How much do you think
attractiveness matters in casting players? 10 upvotes · 40 comments The sad realization that being a wedding photographer no longer pays the bills... r/WeddingPhotography • 10mo
ago The sad realization that being a wedding photographer no longer pays the bills... 158 upvotes · 161 comments Wedding photographers, what insurance are we using these days?
r/WeddingPhotography • 3mo ago Wedding photographers, what insurance are we using these days? 8 upvotes · 31 comments How long do you plan to continue to be a Wedding Photographer?
r/WeddingPhotography • 3mo ago How long do you plan to continue to be a Wedding Photographer? 42 upvotes · 59 comments Why do women have to go out of their way to seem ‘nice’ at
work just to be seen as professional? r/TwoXIndia • 1y ago Why do women have to go out of their way to seem ‘nice’ at work just to be seen as professional? 137 upvotes · 24
comments Shot a wedding for the first time. How do you all do this weekly? r/WeddingPhotography • 7mo ago Shot a wedding for the first time. How do you all do this weekly? 55
