marketing 2 upvotes · 16 comments going to a photography model event as a total noob and could use some tips r/AskPhotography • 4y ago going to a photography model event as a total
noob and could use some tips 2 upvotes · 4 comments Getting into photography and want to learn quickly. r/photography • 1y ago Getting into photography and want to learn quickly. 6
upvotes · 54 comments Photography - Business or hobby going into the future? r/photography • 22d ago Photography - Business or hobby going into the future? 5 upvotes · 11 comments
Thinking of quitting photography. Advice? r/photography • 2mo ago Thinking of quitting photography. Advice? 14 comments View Post in 日本語 繁體中文 Português (Brasil) 简体中文 Français See
more Community Info Section r/photography Join Photography /r/photography is a place to politely discuss the tools, technique, art and culture of photography and to post topics
that would be of interest to other photographers. Show more Public Top Posts Reddit reReddit: Top posts of October 19, 2022 Reddit reReddit: Top posts of October 2022 Reddit
reReddit: Top posts of 2022 Reddit Rules Privacy Policy User Agreement Your Privacy Choices Accessibility Reddit, Inc. © 2026. All rights reserved. Collapse Navigation Skip to main
content What is the best market to be a professional portrait photographer? : r/photography r/photography Search in r/photography Get App Log In Expand user menu Skip to
NavigationSkip to Right Sidebar Back Go to photography r/photography • 2y ago [deleted] What is the best market to be a professional portrait photographer? Business Curious as to
your thoughts, are mega-markets like LA or NYC the best place to earn a living? Or are they overcrowded with tough clients and high expectations? Are smaller markets better to move
a business to? We are in a large market (SoCal), and have a solid 7-figure a-year business (total revenue not profit), but are thinking about moving cities and wanted to get some
outside perspective on whether we could replicate similar success in a smaller city. Archived post. New comments cannot be posted and votes cannot be cast. Upvote 4 Downvote 5 Go
to comments Share u/eBay_Inc avatar eBay_Inc • Promoted From base sets to grail hits, rip it all live with sellers you trust. You’re only a tap away. From base sets to grail hits,
rip it all live with sellers you trust. You’re only a tap away. From base sets to grail hits, rip it all live with sellers you trust. You’re only a tap away. From base sets to
grail hits, rip it all live with sellers you trust. You’re only a tap away. ebay.com Shop Now Sort by: Best Search Comments Expand comment search Comments Section
u/AndyPandyFoFandy avatar AndyPandyFoFandy • 2y ago Need to consider specific market… You can’t just “do photography” and establish your business anywhere. In SoCal who are your
main customers? Do those same people exist in Colorado? Nebraska? Upvote 6 Downvote Award Share u/stubbornstain avatar stubbornstain • 2y ago What is the advice you would give to
someone who wants to helicopter into your market? Due_Adeptness1676 • 2y ago No specific city exists.. hone your niche and folks will flock to you. u/marshmallowsupreme avatar
marshmallowsupreme • 2y ago I'm going to avoid your question. Find where you want to live, and do what you want to do there. u/RedHuey avatar RedHuey • 2y ago • Edited 2y ago tub
teeny rustic resolute work snatch consider lush poor edge This post was mass deleted and anonymized with Redact New to Reddit? Create your account and connect with a world of
communities. Continue With Phone Number By continuing, you agree to our User Agreement and acknowledge that you understand the Privacy Policy. Related Answers Section Related
Answers Best websites for curated image collections Best alternatives to Pixieset and Squarespace Best photo gallery software for photographers Best platforms to sell photos online
Best lenses for portrait photography More posts you may like Best sales platform? r/photography • 2y ago Best sales platform? 2 upvotes · 8 comments u/adobe avatar adobe • Promoted
Don't just send files. Share an organized, interactive experience that actually gets your message across with PDF Spaces. Do that with Acrobat. Thumbnail image: Don't just send
files. Share an organized, interactive experience that actually gets your message across with PDF Spaces. Do that with Acrobat. adobe.com Learn More What parts of being a
professional photographer isn’t talked about enough? r/photography • 1mo ago What parts of being a professional photographer isn’t talked about enough? 82 upvotes · 145 comments
I'm creating website to sell my photography - which one should I use - Shopify, Squarespace, or Wix? r/photography • 3y ago I'm creating website to sell my photography - which one
should I use - Shopify, Squarespace, or Wix? 2 upvotes · 19 comments What platform would you recommend just to display photos, not sell? r/photography • 3y ago What platform would
you recommend just to display photos, not sell? 125 upvotes · 164 comments Best Places to Sell Fine Art Photography Prints & How to Approach Galleries/Collectors/Agents?
r/photography • 1y ago Best Places to Sell Fine Art Photography Prints & How to Approach Galleries/Collectors/Agents? 4 comments Beginner and pro photographery gallery platforms?
What do you use? r/photography • 9mo ago Beginner and pro photographery gallery platforms? What do you use? 51 upvotes · 17 comments Best Websites for client galleries and printing
to order r/photography • 3y ago Best Websites for client galleries and printing to order 2 upvotes · 15 comments If you were to start your photography business all over again what
would you do differently? r/photography • 3y ago If you were to start your photography business all over again what would you do differently? 100 upvotes · 70 comments How to get
clients as portrait photographer? r/photography • 2y ago How to get clients as portrait photographer? r/photography - How to get clients as portrait photographer? google 15 upvotes
· 23 comments How viable is the business model for portrait studios ? r/photography • 10y ago How viable is the business model for portrait studios ? 5 upvotes · 12 comments What
is the best platform for selling prints via your own website? r/photography • 6y ago What is the best platform for selling prints via your own website? 433 upvotes · 78 comments
Those who shoot portraits of people (NOTE: NOT weddings!) or products for money, how did you started? r/photography • 9mo ago Those who shoot portraits of people (NOTE: NOT
weddings!) or products for money, how did you started? 9 upvotes · 25 comments Best Advice Given to you as a Professional Photographer. r/photography • 6mo ago Best Advice Given to
you as a Professional Photographer. 230 upvotes · 169 comments What is the best place to share photographs? r/photography • 3y ago What is the best place to share photographs? 47
upvotes · 56 comments [Portfolio] Is there a market for my photography? r/artbusiness • 6mo ago [Portfolio] Is there a market for my photography? 2 upvotes · 28 comments What's the
best place to list and sell photographs? r/photography • 11y ago What's the best place to list and sell photographs? 32 upvotes · 13 comments Is ’Photographers Market’ still being
published?? r/photography • 2y ago Is ’Photographers Market’ still being published?? 4 upvotes · 2 comments Is Photography Still a Profitable Business in 2025? Let’s Be Honest
r/Entrepreneur • 1y ago Is Photography Still a Profitable Business in 2025? Let’s Be Honest 26 upvotes · 57 comments What niche in photography would you consider the most
profitable? r/photography • 2y ago What niche in photography would you consider the most profitable? 162 upvotes · 290 comments Best platform to sell photography r/photography • 3y
ago Best platform to sell photography 10 comments paid photographer $10k and got obviously AI edited photos, reasonable to be mad? r/photography • 2mo ago paid photographer $10k
and got obviously AI edited photos, reasonable to be mad? 636 upvotes · 452 comments Did off camera flash make you love portrait photography even more? r/photography • 2mo ago Did
off camera flash make you love portrait photography even more? 17 upvotes · 62 comments What photography markets, if any, are not "saturated"? r/photography • 4y ago What
photography markets, if any, are not "saturated"? 12 upvotes · 31 comments Need advice re: professional photos r/photography • 2mo ago Need advice re: professional photos 24
upvotes · 80 comments The secret to a long lasting photography business? r/photography • 5mo ago The secret to a long lasting photography business? 185 upvotes · 52 comments View
Post in Русский 日本語 简体中文 See more Community Info Section r/photography Join Photography /r/photography is a place to politely discuss the tools, technique, art and culture of
photography and to post topics that would be of interest to other photographers. Show more Public Top Posts Reddit reReddit: Top posts of December 15, 2023 Reddit reReddit: Top
posts of December 2023 Reddit reReddit: Top posts of 2023 Reddit Rules Privacy Policy User Agreement Your Privacy Choices Accessibility Reddit, Inc. © 2026. All rights reserved.
Collapse Navigation Skip to main content A question to famous photographers, how? : r/AskPhotography r/AskPhotography Search in r/AskPhotography Get App Log In Expand user menu
Skip to NavigationSkip to Right Sidebar Back Go to AskPhotography r/AskPhotography • 4y ago Hot-Corner-8235 A question to famous photographers, how? I've been taking pictures for a
long time, but I haven't achieved any success in this. I don't exhibit in galleries and I don't have a million followers on Instagram. There are a lot of guys like me, and we don't
even understand which way to move so that our work can be seen and appreciated. Photographers who have achieved success in this, please tell me how to act for novice photographers
and those who want to succeed? If you have a desire, please criticize my photos. Link in bio Archived post. New comments cannot be posted and votes cannot be cast. Upvote 0
Downvote 23 Go to comments Share u/AxonbyAppLovin avatar AxonbyAppLovin • Promoted Profitable advertising made simple Profitable advertising made simple Profitable advertising made
simple Profitable advertising made simple Profitable advertising made simple Profitable advertising made simple Profitable advertising made simple axon.ai Learn More Sort by: Best
Search Comments Expand comment search Comments Section u/KevinFRK avatar KevinFRK • 4y ago I think that "people" and "commercial" skills are what gets them rich and famous in
contrast to "just" talented photographers (I wish I were even that). Upvote 8 Downvote Award Share u/hedbryl avatar hedbryl • 4y ago If you want people to see your work, you have
to take photos they care about. Really only two ways to do that outside of commercial photography. travel places few people go, the more dangerous and remote the better. This will
require a lot of cash. Enter photo competitions, send to magazines, and if you're good at what you do and capturing the right places, hopefully you get published. Take photos of
people. That's what people want to see, photos of themselves and their families. Portrait, wedding, and newborn photos are common genres. You can do it for free if you just want
your work seen, or you can do it as a business once you build a portfolio. [deleted] • 4y ago not everyone can be the best, being the best requires talent that can't be taught or
learned. kickstand • 4y ago And more than a bit of connections, luck and "being in the right place at the right time." u/photoscene avatar photoscene • 4y ago That's it. But the
question is what do you want to achieve with your photos? Do you want to get rich? Do you want to get famous or do you want to have fun? If you don't have fun now, you want have
fun when you're rich and famous. If you want to get rich and famous work hard and get some connections. 3 more replies Hot-Corner-8235 OP • 4y ago I believe that talent = a lot of
work, it's not genes. What do you think? CTDubs0001 • 4y ago • Edited 4y ago I’ve been a photographer for 26 years. In my career I have worked side by side with some of the
absolute best photojournalists. There’s a truth I’ve noticed and I think it probably transcends photographic genres. There are tons of wickedly talented photographers. People born
with talent. People who just see the world so creatively and differently from everyone else. They just have this innate, natural creativity and difference that just boggles my
mind. Then then are people who are super hard workers. The people who developed their talent through hard work. People who will be the first to get to the job and the last to
leave. People who are good at networking and have great people skills. People who aren’t afraid to advocate for themselves. People who are also responsible and can return an email
promptly, or are just tuned into to being professional. The two of these things very very rarely mix. I consider myself one of the latter. I’ve made a very nice career, solid
middle-upper class income. My photos will never get a retrospective in a gallery though. 9 times out of 10 the hard working responsible photographers will get the jobs over the
creatives and will have better careers and make more money. Lots of times the creatives are just awful at the business side of things, or can be pretty flakey. Sometimes their
careers flame out or are short because they’re not easy to work with. But this is the person that some day somebody might find their photos in a suitcase when they’re dead and the
art world will say they were a genius. It’s the rare person who has both of these aspects that becomes the rock star. I know these are some pretty big generalizations and
stereotypes of people but I’ve really found it to be pretty accurate across 26 years of a career in NyC. Ymmv. u/Selishots avatar Selishots • 4y ago To a degree but some people are
naturally talented. Think of it like singing, if you don't have a good voice your not going to be a professional singer, you can take lesson and learn to get better but your voice
is still your voice. Having the right eye and skill for photography does come naturally to some and when they put time into learning on top of it, they will be better then someone
who doesn't have the natural eye for photography and has to learn everything. It suck's and there may be some exceptions but for the most part that's just how it is. 5 more replies
BlurredOrange • 4y ago It's often both. The very best in the world are both naturally talented and driven far beyond the average person to succeed. But to be just very good doesn't
require natural talent. It does require learned skills though. If you're a beginner asking how to become famous as an amazing photographer, then your first port of call is to learn
the skills. This will probably take years of hard work and constant practice. Obviously, you are not likely to "become famous" for amazing photographs as a novice photographer.
That IMHO anyways. Good luck! 1 more reply [deleted] • 4y ago I totally agree. You Can be a little better than other when you start. Maybe you understand faster than some others
but it will never replace work and learning a lot. [deleted] • 4y ago no, talent is talent a lot of work is a lot of work they're not the same, at all [deleted] • 4y ago Any Art
form is entirely subjective. You know how many times I've stared at a painting that looks like my 3rd grader could have done and wondered why it was worth a million dollars? ctiz1
• 4y ago I don’t do any gallery shows or have millions of followers - I have 2000 something. But I’m very proud of the success I’ve had in photography, working full time for 11
years with amazing people in wild places around the world, and building a fairly deep 6 figure business along the way. Don’t equate followers with success. It’s a common and severe
fallacy. New to Reddit? Create your account and connect with a world of communities. Continue With Phone Number By continuing, you agree to our User Agreement and acknowledge that
you understand the Privacy Policy. Related Answers Section Related Answers Best lenses for portrait photography Choosing the best lens for portrait photography depends on your
camera system, desired aesthetic, and budget, with Redditors frequently recommending 85mm, 50mm, and 70-200mm f/2.8 lenses for their versatility and ability to produce flattering
results. Popular Focal Lengths for Portraits 85mm lenses are widely considered ideal for traditional portraits due to their flattering compression and ability to create beautiful
background blur. "85mm to me is the ideal portrait length." 50mm lenses are praised for their versatility, offering a natural perspective that closely matches human vision and
performing well for both headshots and wider environmental portraits. "My favorite portrait length for most of my work, but I like shooting a lot looser… full body, or horizontal
frame waist up." 70-200mm f/2.8 zoom lenses are a highly recommended workhorse, providing excellent versatility for various portrait distances and offering impressive background
separation. "To be honest, and I know it is heavy: the 70-200mm f/2.8 with stabilizing. Versatile, great bokeh, great background separation. Absolutely stunning." Key
Considerations for Lens Selection Aperture Size (f-stop): A wide aperture (e.g., f/1.2, f/1.4, f/1.8, f/2.8) is crucial for achieving the sought-after bokeh effect, blurring the
background to make the subject stand out. "If you want bokeh, you'll need the aperture of f1.4 / 1.8." Prime vs. Zoom Lenses: Prime lenses (fixed focal length) often offer superior
image quality and wider apertures at a lower cost, while zoom lenses provide flexibility in framing without changing lenses. "Prime with low aperture. 35mm or 50mm usually, I
prefer shorter focal lengths" Sensor Size: The camera's sensor size impacts the effective focal length and depth of field. "To talk about a focal length without mentioning the
sensor size is misleading." Advanced and Specialty Lenses 105mm and 135mm lenses are also popular choices for portraits, especially for tighter headshots, offering distinct
compression and bokeh characteristics. "85mm, 105mm, 135mm and 200mm would be most used portrait lens." Sigma and Viltrox produce well-regarded and often more affordable prime
lenses that deliver excellent image quality for portraiture. "The Sigma 56mm f/1.4 is a great portrait lens." Are you looking for lens recommendations for a specific camera brand
or type? See Answer Tips for shooting in low light conditions How to choose the right camera for beginners Essential gear for landscape photography Creative techniques for macro
photography More posts you may like Professional artists: how much has AI art affected your career? r/ArtistLounge • 4y ago Professional artists: how much has AI art affected your
career? 228 upvotes · 308 comments u/bookcameo avatar bookcameo • Promoted Cameo is the only gift that makes grown adults lose composure on camera. Please gift wisely. Thumbnail
image: Cameo is the only gift that makes grown adults lose composure on camera. Please gift wisely. cameo.com Book Now What is your favorite photograph you've taken and why?
r/AskPhotography • 2mo ago What is your favorite photograph you've taken and why? r/AskPhotography - What is your favorite photograph you've taken and why? 947 upvotes · 170
comments Photographers - give me your best advice from experience? r/AskPhotography • 3mo ago Photographers - give me your best advice from experience? 55 upvotes · 208 comments
Who is a photographer that completely changed your idea of photography? r/AskPhotography • 4mo ago Who is a photographer that completely changed your idea of photography? 38
upvotes · 72 comments How to start my photography journey? r/AskPhotography • 2mo ago How to start my photography journey? r/AskPhotography - How to start my photography journey? 3
8 upvotes · 12 comments Tips for beginner photographers? r/AskPhotography • 1mo ago Tips for beginner photographers? r/AskPhotography - Tips for beginner photographers? 74 upvotes
· 15 comments How to get art out as an artist? r/missouri • 4y ago How to get art out as an artist? 1 upvote · 9 comments How do I begin my journey into Photography?
r/AskPhotography • 3mo ago How do I begin my journey into Photography? 2 upvotes · 31 comments How do you keep passion for photography? r/AskPhotography • 2mo ago How do you keep
passion for photography? 40 upvotes · 57 comments How do make it stand out? r/AskPhotography • 4mo ago How do make it stand out? r/AskPhotography - How do make it stand out? 36
upvotes · 22 comments What (other) photographers would you recommend for someone who enjoyed reviewing these pictures for inspiration? r/AskPhotography • 3mo ago What (other)
photographers would you recommend for someone who enjoyed reviewing these pictures for inspiration? r/AskPhotography - What (other) photographers would you recommend for someone
who enjoyed reviewing these pictures for inspiration? 10 50 upvotes · 23 comments How can I make this type of photography? r/AskPhotography • 22d ago How can I make this type of
photography? r/AskPhotography - How can I make this type of photography? 5 338 upvotes · 143 comments How was this photo made? r/AskPhotography • 2mo ago How was this photo made?
r/AskPhotography - How was this photo made? 960 upvotes · 47 comments Questions to ask photographer? r/Weddingsunder10k • 4y ago Questions to ask photographer? 5 upvotes · 9
comments How would I take a similar pic? r/AskPhotography • 18d ago How would I take a similar pic? r/AskPhotography - How would I take a similar pic? 4 530 upvotes · 30 comments
How to get over the feeling of "why bother, it's been done"? r/AskPhotography • 4y ago How to get over the feeling of "why bother, it's been done"? 39 upvotes · 28 comments How do
you justify your presence as a photographer? r/AskPhotography • 3mo ago How do you justify your presence as a photographer? r/AskPhotography - How do you justify your presence as a
photographer? 2.5K upvotes · 164 comments Any other controversial photographers out there? r/AskPhotography • 6mo ago Any other controversial photographers out there? 18 upvotes ·
65 comments Beginner photographer here, any tips for starting a photography gig? r/AskPhotography • 1mo ago Beginner photographer here, any tips for starting a photography gig?
r/AskPhotography - Beginner photographer here, any tips for starting a photography gig? 6 133 upvotes · 81 comments Who are your favorite famous photographers? r/AskPhotography •
1y ago Who are your favorite famous photographers? 10 upvotes · 45 comments Does anyone here feel like photography has shifted over more towards marketing, rather than the art?
r/photography • 4y ago Does anyone here feel like photography has shifted over more towards marketing, rather than the art? 737 upvotes · 194 comments Best place to share
photography that isn't instagram? r/AskPhotography • 3mo ago Best place to share photography that isn't instagram? r/AskPhotography - Best place to share photography that isn't
instagram? 726 upvotes · 237 comments How long of an exposure should you do for this? r/AskPhotography • 7mo ago How long of an exposure should you do for this? r/AskPhotography -
How long of an exposure should you do for this? 38 upvotes · 11 comments What are some things you wish people wouldn’t say to you, as an artist? r/ArtistLounge • 4y ago What are
some things you wish people wouldn’t say to you, as an artist? 77 upvotes · 148 comments Does anyone have any ideas of how I can be charitable with my photography services?
r/AskPhotography • 2mo ago Does anyone have any ideas of how I can be charitable with my photography services? 33 upvotes · 45 comments Community Info Section r/AskPhotography Join
Photography community ready to help. Whether you're a seasoned professional or just starting out, this subreddit is the perfect place to ask questions, seek advice, and engage in
discussions about all things photography. We're here to foster a supportive and knowledgeable community that shares a passion for capturing the world through the lens. If you're
new to photography or have a burning question, don't hesitate to make a post! Our community is filled with experienced photographers who are eager to help. Show more Public Top
Posts Reddit reReddit: Top posts of November 22, 2022 Reddit reReddit: Top posts of November 2022 Reddit reReddit: Top posts of 2022 Reddit Rules Privacy Policy User Agreement Your
Privacy Choices Accessibility Reddit, Inc. © 2026. All rights reserved. Collapse Navigation Skip to main content Booked my first celebrity interview. Could use advice :
r/Journalism r/Journalism Search in r/Journalism Get App Log In Expand user menu Skip to NavigationSkip to Right Sidebar Back Go to Journalism r/Journalism • 7mo ago Vampster26
Booked my first celebrity interview. Could use advice Career Advice I booked my first celebrity interview. But I’m not tied to any big journalism company. Doing my own thing. Any
advice on do’s and don’ts? Upvote 28 Downvote 19 Go to comments Share u/WSJ_Official avatar WSJ_Official • Promoted When Humanoid Robots Come to a Small-Town Factory Read More
wsj.com Thumbnail image: When Humanoid Robots Come to a Small-Town Factory Join the conversation Sort by: Best Search Comments Expand comment search Comments Section Pop-X- • 7mo
ago Don’t be a fan. Be cool. Upvote 56 Downvote Reply Award Share Vampster26 OP • 7mo ago Much as I wish i could say it should go without saying, i know that people sometimes don’t
separate that. I appreciate the advice Upvote 10 Downvote Reply Award Share Organic_Shadow • 7mo ago I would offer a slight addendum - if you're a fan, that can be a benefit,
because you have more knowledge than the average well prepared interviewer. I interviewed a couple of real honest to god celebs who I was a legit fan of, and that put me in a
position to ask nuanced questions that they don't usually get. Use your fandom to your advantage! u/PancakesOnMySyrup avatar PancakesOnMySyrup • 7mo ago Applies to every interview
but especially with celebs: know your stuff. Read their wikipedia, stalk their social media and watch past interviews. Don’t start with the same questions they’ve heard dozens of
times. Vampster26 OP • 7mo ago He’s a showrunner. I’ve done my research on his previous shows and career start. He doesn’t have much socials unfortunately. And I’ve seen a few of
his interviews. But I agree it’s good to know my stuff. I’m gonna keep doing my research u/ladidaixx avatar ladidaixx • 7mo ago Is this for a written interview for your Substack?
Or a video for YouTube? Just trying to make sure the advice is applicable. Vampster26 OP • 7mo ago Basically my own blog. So substack would probably be the closest thing to that
u/ladidaixx avatar ladidaixx • 7mo ago Research-wise, do as much of a deep dive possible so you can stand out by asking unexpected, self-reflective questions. Stuff that makes them
really think and that hadn’t been discussed deeply before, but that you know they would be passionate about discussing u/slyndrx avatar u/slyndrx • Promoted Learn about Slynd!
Click here for Patient Info and additional Important Risk Info. Learn about Slynd! Learn about Slynd! Learn about Slynd! Learn about Slynd! slynd.com Learn More
Alternative-Neat-123 • 7mo ago new batteries in the recorder. backup with notebook. show appreciation for their time by not wasting it, not by telling them how much you appreciate
it. learn something not well known about them beforehand. eye contact. overdress for the occasion. QuitCallingNewsrooms • 7mo ago Have fun with it. Be an active listener. You’ll
end up with a better clip if you have a conversation instead of asking questions on a list. (Obvious, yes, but you have no idea how many people need to hear that.) One of the best
questions I’ve heard recently that gets people telling a story comes from the New Heights podcast. They have had a number of big celebrities on their show, and they always ask,
“What is your welcome to Hollywood moment?” u/Kamandi62 avatar Kamandi62 • 7mo ago Don’t lead them toward answers; give them the space to respond organically. That was a mistake I
made early on. And have follow-up Q’s in mind for potential questions you ask. Don’t force a follow-up, but think of hypotheticals when coming up with a question list. Also, when
producing the article/headline, look at the interview as a whole and find a good angle. A thought-provoking Q can/should lead to an equally intriguing quote that can be turned into
a solid headline. “Selling” an interview as a must-read article is something that a lot of brands struggle with. Some outlets think the interview itself is intriguing enough, but
most of the time that’s not the case. Pottski • 7mo ago Be led by them to some extent. Ask open ended questions and explore those avenues they bring up. If you say “what’s your
favourite colour” and they say “blue because of my grandma and her love of the ocean” your next question should talk to their answer. What does your grandma mean to you? Why does
she love the ocean? Etc. You only ask a new questions after they’ve stopped answering and adding things to a previous set of questions. People will tell you a story about
themselves more interesting than any question you can ask, but you need to ask a lot of “why is that?” Or “how did that happen?” Questions along the way. Explore their passions and
tasks that give them energy too - you can see on their socials or their work just what they love. Lean into passion, wisdom or pride; these tend to get to the heart of a person
quicker. u/Busy_Tomorrow1904 avatar Busy_Tomorrow1904 • 7mo ago I suggest trying to be real. Ask what their dreams are if they achieved them. Give them magic wand and what would
their three wishes be. Also don’t forget to treat them with compassion. We all have a story but the obstacles that typically detour most prevent success. Remember just a celebrity
to you, for someone who doesn’t watch tv or follow any shows, there’s many people who don’t know of this person. jgrossnas • 7mo ago Good advice otherwise but I would just add,
save the most uncomfortable questions for last. Build up a rapport with them and then get to the hard stuff later. New to Reddit? Create your account and connect with a world of
communities. Continue With Phone Number By continuing, you agree to our User Agreement and acknowledge that you understand the Privacy Policy. Related Answers Section Related
Answers Impact of social media on journalism today Social media has reshaped journalism by changing how news is found, reported, shared, and funded. Speed and sourcing Social
platforms make news surface faster. "You don’t get your news from Instagram, you get them from whoever posts it on Instagram." Reporters now use social posts and groups as
reporting leads. "Hyperlocal journalist who hates social media and has to wade through local FB groups for information reporting for duty! Ugh, I feel your pain 🤣" That speed also
raises verification challenges. "The rise of social media and personality-based news ... represents another significant challenge for traditional publishers." Audience and trust
More people get news via social platforms than traditional outlets. "Social media and video networks have become the main source of news in the US, overtaking traditional TV
channels and news websites." Trust issues grow when journalists show personal opinions online. "Having an opinion and sharing it publicly is what journalists are NOT supposed to
do." Some audiences prefer personality-driven or influencer sources. "Podcaster Joe Rogan was the most widely-seen personality... almost a quarter (22%) of the population..."
Business and distribution Newsrooms rely on social platforms for traffic, but that dependence is risky. "Being in the news business but relying on social media platforms and search
engines has become very risky." Algorithms can suddenly boost or bury outlets, making reach unstable. "My newspaper got dropped from the FB algo. Thousands of interactions down to
about 10 per day around early 2023." Some publishers push staff to build personal brands to drive clicks. "The company I work for recently told us that we’re required to post our
articles along with our thoughts on our personal LinkedIn pages..." Industry practice and roles Smaller outlets and individuals can become primary local news sources via social
pages. "I help with a facebook page that has grown in popularity greatly... We are realizing that we are no longer just a couple guys posting stuff, but a real outlet for news."
Some newsrooms assign reporters social-media duties; larger orgs may have dedicated teams. "Depends on scale; the BBC does things differently to a one man and his dog local
outlet." Journalism skills still matter: verification, attending meetings, digging records. "You need to keep a finger on the pulse of society ... that requires doing a lot of
things you may not like. Council meetings, reading FOIs, networking and building a source list, etc." Practical impacts on reporters Reporters must balance visibility with personal
boundaries and ethics. "You don’t need to be active yourself on social media ... but you will need to leverage social media for things like staying up to date on topics and news in
your industry." Public criticism on social platforms can be intense; many advise restraint. "If I were the reporter in question I would do nothing and let the storm blow itself
out." Some see opportunities: build your brand, use new formats, or go independent. "Journalism is critical to society and democracy, but it’s going through massive changes ... use
journalism as a way to learn storytelling." Overall, social media makes journalism faster, more discoverable, and more democratic, but it also creates verification, trust,
business, and ethical stresses for reporters and outlets. Journalists adapt by learning new tools, protecting standards, and balancing platform use with core reporting skills.
Communities for Further Discussion Journalism 74K weekly visitors Join r/journalism is a community focused on the industry and practice of journalism (from the classroom to the
newsroom). See Answer Best practices for investigative journalism How to build a strong journalist portfolio Ethics in journalism: navigating gray areas Future trends in journalism
to watch More posts you may like 6 Years Ago Conan O'Brien Made This Video in Response To The Viral ''Imagine'' Video r/Fauxmoi • 2mo ago 6 Years Ago Conan O'Brien Made This Video
in Response To The Viral ''Imagine'' Video r/Fauxmoi - 6 Years Ago Conan O'Brien Made This Video in Response To The Viral ''Imagine'' Video 3:00 909 upvotes · 32 comments u/shopify
avatar shopify • Promoted Start dropshipping with Shopify - sell trending products without inventory, shipping, or warehouse costs. Thumbnail image: Start dropshipping with Shopify
- sell trending products without inventory, shipping, or warehouse costs. shopify.com Sign Up What's your favorite podcast episode of a celebrity interview? r/podcasts • 9mo ago
What's your favorite podcast episode of a celebrity interview? 57 upvotes · 74 comments Sometimes I worry that there’s no place for me in this industry as an introverted reporter
r/Journalism • 9mo ago Sometimes I worry that there’s no place for me in this industry as an introverted reporter 59 upvotes · 24 comments What’s the most memorable interaction
you’ve seen between a celeb and an interviewer? r/Fauxmoi • 4y ago What’s the most memorable interaction you’ve seen between a celeb and an interviewer? 202 upvotes · 317 comments
About to be interviewed for a journalism internship. What to expect? r/Journalism • 1y ago About to be interviewed for a journalism internship. What to expect? 11 upvotes · 3
comments Journalists, what are some misconceptions people have about the field that you just can’t stand? r/Journalism • 7mo ago Journalists, what are some misconceptions people
have about the field that you just can’t stand? 158 upvotes · 148 comments Someone hit my Leased 2025 Toyota and I have a question. r/Toyota • 7mo ago Someone hit my Leased 2025
Toyota and I have a question. 4 upvotes · 5 comments Any tips for handling 2-hour interviews and transcriptions? r/Journalism • 6mo ago Any tips for handling 2-hour interviews and
transcriptions? 7 upvotes · 29 comments What is the most bizarre celebrity interview you can recall? r/popculturechat • 2y ago What is the most bizarre celebrity interview you can
recall? 75 upvotes · 65 comments The Costco Guys and the Rizzler react to Ospreay's return at AEW Revolution r/SquaredCircle • 2mo ago The Costco Guys and the Rizzler react to
Ospreay's return at AEW Revolution r/SquaredCircle - The Costco Guys and the Rizzler react to Ospreay's return at AEW Revolution 0:13 526 upvotes · 84 comments Conan O'Brien Is
"Oscars Host For Life" r/conan • 6d ago Conan O'Brien Is "Oscars Host For Life" r/conan - Conan O'Brien Is "Oscars Host For Life" youtu 66 upvotes · 10 comments What was the very
best celebrity interview you have listened to or watched? r/AskReddit • 4y ago What was the very best celebrity interview you have listened to or watched? 36 upvotes · 55 comments
PK Interview: Need To Talk Podcast r/RHOBH • 9d ago PK Interview: Need To Talk Podcast r/RHOBH - PK Interview: Need To Talk Podcast youtu 270 upvotes · 212 comments Viola Davis
recalls the time when Meryl Streep forgot her lines in ‘Doubt’ (both were nominated for Oscars for their roles) r/popculturechat • 2mo ago Viola Davis recalls the time when Meryl
Streep forgot her lines in ‘Doubt’ (both were nominated for Oscars for their roles) r/popculturechat - Viola Davis recalls the time when Meryl Streep forgot her lines in ‘Doubt’
(both were nominated for Oscars for their roles) 0:51 814 upvotes · 46 comments What is the day in the life of an investigative journalist like? (and a flurry of other questions)
r/Journalism • 4mo ago What is the day in the life of an investigative journalist like? (and a flurry of other questions) 30 upvotes · 13 comments Investigative Journalists - How
did you get into it? (UK) r/Journalism • 1mo ago Investigative Journalists - How did you get into it? (UK) 8 upvotes · 18 comments Episode 4 boot on CBS Mornings r/survivor • 2mo
ago Episode 4 boot on CBS Mornings r/survivor - Episode 4 boot on CBS Mornings 5:52 68 upvotes · 46 comments Your fav celebrity interview series/format? Like Wired, Vanity Fair,
Vogue, GQ, Buzzfeed, Elle, BBC Radio or First we feast?? r/Fauxmoi • 3y ago Your fav celebrity interview series/format? Like Wired, Vanity Fair, Vogue, GQ, Buzzfeed, Elle, BBC
Radio or First we feast?? 221 upvotes · 132 comments How do journalists find sources and stories? r/Journalism • 4mo ago How do journalists find sources and stories? r/Journalism -
How do journalists find sources and stories? 31 upvotes · 63 comments CORTIS - CORTIS: The Puppy Interview @ BuzzFeed Celeb (260425) [ENG SUB] r/kpop • 13d ago CORTIS - CORTIS: The
Puppy Interview @ BuzzFeed Celeb (260425) [ENG SUB] r/kpop - CORTIS - CORTIS: The Puppy Interview @ BuzzFeed Celeb (260425) [ENG SUB] youtu 26 upvotes What are some if your
favorite celebrity interviews and I don't mean just a good interview of a celebrity you like on a podcast you like. It could be a celebrity you knew nothing about but the
conversation turned really interesting or fascinating and you really learned sonething from it. r/podcasts • 3y ago What are some if your favorite celebrity interviews and I don't
mean just a good interview of a celebrity you like on a podcast you like. It could be a celebrity you knew nothing about but the conversation turned really interesting or
