administrative burden in the rearview with dental practice support and expert services that allow you to work smarter, breathe easier and live larger. Learn More mb2dental.com
Thumbnail image: Put your administrative burden in the rearview with dental practice support and expert services that allow you to work smarter, breathe easier and live larger.
pleione82 • 2y ago Connections. That's how it works. I thought it was people come to you, but it seems to be about who you know and getting in the circles of luxury clientele.
u/DengleDengle avatar DengleDengle • 2y ago Befriend planners. Proper high end luxury clients book the vendors their planner recommend to them. etcetceteraetcetc • 2y ago Don't be
socially awkward. Being good looking is a plus. Put out amazing, clean work. Network and maintain a good relationship with a luxury planner. Mostly it's by who you know. u/tripleaw
avatar tripleaw • 2y ago Coming from a bride, you need a super strong portfolio. Your style and editing and images need to look rly good, modern and sleek (not necessarily ultra
expensive, but good) for luxe brides to want to book you. u/Due-Section-7884 avatar Due-Section-7884 • 5mo ago When you’re targeting luxury clients, your brand has to signal that
level from the start—website, social media, and overall presentation all matter. Get clear on what actually differentiates you and make that the focus of your marketing. The
clients you attract usually reflect the brand you put out. Chocagi • 2y ago Invest in education and styled shoots. And I don’t mean buying tickets to a styled shoot. Reach out to a
planner that you’re dying to work with and see if you can plan one them. Offer them headshots for free to get them interested. Overdeliver. And they’ll get you booked over and
over. The ultra luxury industry is ALL word of mouth. I’m also chicago based by the way. Hey 👋 🫶🏼 New to Reddit? Create your account and connect with a world of communities.
Continue With Phone Number By continuing, you agree to our User Agreement and acknowledge that you understand the Privacy Policy. Related Answers Section Related Answers Tips for
entering luxury wedding photography Best wedding photographers in Chicago Up-and-coming wedding photographers to watch Cinematic wedding photography tips Luxury wedding
photographer pricing insights More posts you may like Destination photographers, question on how you settled on out of area fees r/WeddingPhotography • 2y ago Destination
photographers, question on how you settled on out of area fees 5 upvotes · 8 comments Destination Wedding - Venue advice before we pull the trigger r/BigBudgetBrides • 20d ago
Destination Wedding - Venue advice before we pull the trigger 6 upvotes · 27 comments Travel photographers: how do clients find you for destination weddings? r/WeddingPhotography •
3y ago Travel photographers: how do clients find you for destination weddings? 5 upvotes · 13 comments Promoted sidebar promoted post thumbnail Destination Weddings & Photography —
What’s Best? r/weddingplanning • 4mo ago Destination Weddings & Photography — What’s Best? 9 comments Brides, what do you wish was offered with your wedding photography package but
wasn't? r/WeddingPhotography • 11d ago Brides, what do you wish was offered with your wedding photography package but wasn't? 14 upvotes · 66 comments Did anyone else get surprised
by their venue requiring insurance? r/BigBudgetBrides • 3mo ago Did anyone else get surprised by their venue requiring insurance? 127 upvotes · 29 comments Luxury/high-end wedding
photographers (10k+ per wedd) what do you include for the client?? r/WeddingPhotography • 2y ago Luxury/high-end wedding photographers (10k+ per wedd) what do you include for the
client?? 40 upvotes · 53 comments Unpopular opinion: A lot of “luxury wedding photography” is just average photography wrapped in expensive styling. r/WeddingPhotography • 10mo ago
Unpopular opinion: A lot of “luxury wedding photography” is just average photography wrapped in expensive styling. 274 upvotes · 98 comments Promoted sidebar promoted post
thumbnail What is a luxury wedding photographer? r/WeddingPhotography • 3mo ago What is a luxury wedding photographer? 51 upvotes · 41 comments Photographers shooting luxury
weddings: How did you get there? r/WeddingPhotography • 8mo ago Photographers shooting luxury weddings: How did you get there? 27 upvotes · 66 comments Destination wedding
photographers r/WeddingPhotography • 3mo ago Destination wedding photographers 12 upvotes · 46 comments Wedding Venue Advice r/BigBudgetBrides • 22d ago Wedding Venue Advice 3
upvotes · 7 comments Unpopular opinion: A lot of “luxury wedding photography” is just average photography wrapped in expensive styling. r/photography • 10mo ago Unpopular opinion:
A lot of “luxury wedding photography” is just average photography wrapped in expensive styling. 593 upvotes · 156 comments Who is The Most Expensive Wedding Photographer in the
world? and what is their portfolio like? r/WeddingPhotography • 6y ago Who is The Most Expensive Wedding Photographer in the world? and what is their portfolio like? 34 upvotes ·
49 comments If you had a destination wedding, did you hire a photographer from out of town and what did it cost you? r/wedding • 6mo ago If you had a destination wedding, did you
hire a photographer from out of town and what did it cost you? 11 comments Photographers who travel: how do you actually get booked in other cities or countries?
r/WeddingPhotography • 7mo ago Photographers who travel: how do you actually get booked in other cities or countries? 13 upvotes · 26 comments Destination Wedding in this climate
r/BigBudgetBrides • 24d ago Destination Wedding in this climate 4 upvotes · 25 comments Luxury Europe Destination Wedding France or Italy r/BigBudgetBrides • 2mo ago Luxury Europe
Destination Wedding France or Italy r/BigBudgetBrides - Luxury Europe Destination Wedding France or Italy 2 25 upvotes · 18 comments sad abt venue - advice appreciated
r/BigBudgetBrides • 4mo ago sad abt venue - advice appreciated 18 upvotes · 31 comments Italy Destination Wedding Planning - Venue Recommendations Wanted!! r/BigBudgetBrides • 4mo
ago Italy Destination Wedding Planning - Venue Recommendations Wanted!! 4 upvotes · 9 comments How do you start breaking into the performing world? What does that realistically
look like for a newcomer? r/Magic • 2y ago How do you start breaking into the performing world? What does that realistically look like for a newcomer? 19 upvotes · 37 comments Are
you ready for space age Ktel tech? r/vinyl • 2y ago Are you ready for space age Ktel tech? r/vinyl - Are you ready for space age Ktel tech? youtu 4 upvotes · 3 comments Custom
branded/custom produced items for your wedding weekend that helped create an immersive/cohesive environment? r/BigBudgetBrides • 2mo ago Custom branded/custom produced items for
your wedding weekend that helped create an immersive/cohesive environment? r/BigBudgetBrides - Custom branded/custom produced items for your wedding weekend that helped create an
immersive/cohesive environment? 6 28 upvotes · 12 comments What are some fun, unique, or thoughtful touches you’ve seen at past weddings? r/BigBudgetBrides • 21d ago What are some
fun, unique, or thoughtful touches you’ve seen at past weddings? 22 upvotes · 32 comments How did you get started in wedding photography? r/WeddingPhotography • 2mo ago How did you
get started in wedding photography? 5 upvotes · 48 comments View Post in Français Tiếng Việt 繁體中文 Русский 日本語 See more Community Info Section r/WeddingPhotography Join Wedding
photography This is the home of the wedding photographer community on Reddit and the place for wedding photographers, second photographers, assistants, and those aspiring to be
wedding photographers. This is a discussion based community and the place to share experiences, business insight, creative ideas about our work, and more. Show more Public Top
Posts Reddit reReddit: Top posts of July 10, 2024 Reddit reReddit: Top posts of July 2024 Reddit reReddit: Top posts of 2024 Reddit Rules Privacy Policy User Agreement Your Privacy
Choices Accessibility Reddit, Inc. © 2026. All rights reserved. Collapse Navigation Skip to main content Photographers shooting luxury weddings: How did you get there? :
r/WeddingPhotography r/WeddingPhotography Search in r/WeddingPhotography Get App Log In Expand user menu Skip to NavigationSkip to Right Sidebar Back Go to WeddingPhotography
r/WeddingPhotography • 8mo ago GazelleLow4623 Photographers shooting luxury weddings: How did you get there? business, marketing, social media Hi everyone, I’ve been shooting
weddings for a while. My couples are happy, my work is solid, and I feel good about what I deliver. But I keep wondering: how do photographers actually get into those big, luxury
weddings? The ones with big budgets and wellknown vendors. Sometimes it feels like that world is closed off. I’d love to hear your thoughts and real experiences: • Does it start
with branding, social media, a polished website? Or is it more about personal connections? • Is having a very defined style more important than being versatile? • Do you need to
invest in ads, styled shoots, networking, or even just being in the right location? • How do you set higher prices and still get couples to book you for your value instead of just
the price tag? If you’ve managed to reach that higher-end market, what actually worked for you? What didn’t? Any advice you’d give to someone who feels ready but doesn’t know how
to make that leap? I think this could be helpful for a lot of us who have the work, but are trying to figure out how to break that ceiling. Thanks for reading—looking forward to
learning from you all! Upvote 27 Downvote 66 Go to comments Share u/Colgate_US avatar Colgate_US • Promoted Get ready to WOW. Brush your way to a brighter smile with Colgate Optic
White Pro Series. Shop Now shop.mikmak.ai Clickable image which will reveal the video player: Get ready to WOW. Brush your way to a brighter smile with Colgate Optic White Pro
Series. Collapse video player 0:00 / 0:00 Join the conversation Sort by: Best Search Comments Expand comment search Comments Section Silver_Rms91 • 8mo ago My highest weddings was
few years ago when I shot a Serie A football player's wedding. I could say a good 35% of my clients are people with at least 8 digits in their bank account. Almost all of them came
from my site, the remaining small parts had been suggested by other colleagues. A polished site and good networking are the biggest help. ItsJustJohnCena • 8mo ago Can we see your
site? 1 more reply u/evanrphoto avatar evanrphoto • 8mo ago Let me just ask you to reframe your question without using the word “luxury”? What if it you would like to do? There is
really an intersection of quite a fee different characteristics that are often found together but are not always directly related and sometimes can be directly competing. Do you
want to charge $30k per wedding? Do you want to shoot celebrity weddings? Do you want to shoot destinations mostly? Do you want to shoot formal black tie weddings? Do you want to
shoot large multi-day weddings? Do you want to shoot weddings with large creative production budgets? Do you want to shoot weddings with a lot of creative control? Do you want to
generate epic IG content? I say this just because the term “luxury” carries a lot of different meaning to different people. And quite frankly, the people who probably deserve it
the most, specifically do not use this word. u/GazelleLow4623 avatar GazelleLow4623 OP • 8mo ago I realize now that I’ve been using the word “luxury” as a shortcut, but what I’m
actually chasing is more specific. For me, it’s about working with couples who value art and emotion, giving me the space to create with intention. I’d love to shoot multi-day or
destination weddings, where the story unfolds and I can bring in both digital and film. The budget side matters of course, but mostly because it opens the door to more creative
freedom and production value. So thank you for reframing it—your comment actually helped me see that what I want is less about a label, and more about aligning with the right kind
of couples and projects. u/evanrphoto avatar evanrphoto • 8mo ago • Edited 8mo ago I appreciate the well considered response. It sounds like you have the clarity and motivation to
get yourself where you would like to go. I realize I was kind of coming off as snarky but that wasn’t my intention. I was just in a couple conversations about this just yesterday
with some people, including KT and some others who you would probably consider luxury, and I think the term can lead people down the wrong path. It sounds like you have a good
understanding of what you would like out of wedding photography, which is wonderful. I would slightly caution that with big budgets usually come big expectations and you become
proportionally smaller. Once you really get into those international upper tiers while things look cool and expensive you will have the LEAST amount of creative freedom and
control. Some of the top photographers in the world really struggle with this. But regardless of the niche you really want to target… try and see if you can discover what it is
really like. Keep reassessing if this is really what you want. Things are always different from the outside. But my answer to your primary question is to really dive in and dig
deep into the vein of what you love. Get hyper focused on exactly the kind of weddings you want to shoot. Identify all of the players in that space… photographers, planners,
producers, designers, florists… and insert yourself into that scene. Be intentional. Do what it takes to build your portfolio in that vein. Build any and all relationships you can
in that space. Continue to stay relevant and present in that space. Work hard, be kind, be positive, be grateful… repeat. Go get it! 2 more replies u/Powerful-Video-794 avatar
Powerful-Video-794 • 8mo ago Ah... this brings great clarity to your question. I'm like you. I love the connection with couples. It helps with the storytelling and creativity.
Almost every time I photograph a luxury wedding, there are gatekeepers (coordinators, planners, their "people") who want to set the timing and pace of the day and limit my contact
with the couple. It shuts down the creativity and usually couples (who aren't experts about all things wedding) don't realize that the timing doesn't match how you work. I work
within the schedule I came up with (after 1,300 couples, I know how much time I do and don't need to get their priorities taken care of) and it lets the couple and I play in great
light are really make them shine. It's extremely rare to have this kind of experience within the "luxury" market. I found the creativity plummeted, the couple wasn't nearly as
invested in photography (yet were ready to have their parents pay a LOT for photography) and were more going through the motions rather than feeling that creative spark that
literally puts them in the most flattering light. Maybe it's just me. I'm a recovering photojournalist and love reality based weddings full of stollen moments. I often think the
"Luxury Market" means couples just want to have everything done for them so they move from place to place throughout their day without getting emotionally involved. Totally fine
for them, but honestly? It just isn't fun. And the photo coverage is stilted. I'll take my "we love you" couples who value photography over just about everything instead of higher
pricing any day. u/No-Dig-6580 avatar No-Dig-6580 • 8mo ago As a landscape photographer who moved into weddings, I found that streamlining my workflow was what let me take on
luxury weddings instead of getting stuck in entry-level. When you're culling and editing thousands of images, efficiency isn't just about speed-it's about preserving your creative
energy for the shots that matter. (That's why I'm such a stickler for workflow optimization.) If you're looking to move up to those higher-end clients, honestly, it's less about
the gear and more about how you manage your time. The couples who book luxury weddings expect perfection, and that means having a rock-solid workflow that lets you deliver
consistently. I've found that the best way to break into that market is to first get your own house in order. That means having a system that scales. (I've shared some resources on
my profile if you want to dig deeper, but the key is to start with what you have and optimize from there.) Happy shooting! u/GazelleLow4623 avatar GazelleLow4623 OP • 8mo ago
That’s a great point. I hadn’t thought about workflow as the foundation for moving up, but it makes a lot of sense. From a marketing perspective, I’ve always seen luxury clients
less as “looking for gear” and more as “looking for trust.” If your workflow is dialed in, that trust comes naturally because you’re consistent and reliable. I guess what I’m still
figuring out is: once you have that rock-solid workflow in place, how do you actually get seen by those high-end clients? Is it mostly about vendor relationships, or branding, or
something else? EcstaticEnnui • 8mo ago Tbh only budget couples ask about gear. 1 more reply u/No-Dig-6580 avatar No-Dig-6580 • 8mo ago Great question! Once you have that solid
workflow foundation, getting noticed by high-end clients really comes down to three key things from my experience: First, it's all about your portfolio presentation. Luxury clients
want to see that you can deliver consistent excellence across multiple weddings, not just one perfect shot. I learned this the hard way when I first started - I had amazing
individual photos but wasn't showing the full story of a wedding day. Now I structure my portfolio to show complete wedding stories, which really resonates with high-end couples.
Second, vendor relationships are absolutely crucial. The planners, venues, and florists who work with luxury weddings become your best referral sources. I started by offering to
shoot a few vendor collaborations for free (with proper credit) to build those relationships, and it paid off big time. Third, and this was a game-changer for me - I stopped trying
to be everything to everyone. I niched down to specific types of luxury weddings (destination, multi-day events, etc.) and became known for that specialty. It made my marketing
much more focused and effective. The workflow optimization was definitely the foundation that made all this possible - without it, I'd never have had the time to build these
relationships or curate my portfolio properly. When you're not spending all your time editing, you can actually focus on the business side of things! 1 more reply u/stockadobe
avatar u/stockadobe • Promoted Edit faster than ever with a new collection of powerful AI tools. Learn More stock.adobe.com Thumbnail image: Edit faster than ever with a new
collection of powerful AI tools. EcstaticEnnui • 8mo ago The first time I just happened to book someone whose wedding was more lavish than I’d ever imagined. The bride who picked
me was down to earth. Her family was crazy wealthy and threw an over the top party on a private island with a celebrity planner and everything. I was out of my league but I worked
really hard and did as good as I could at the time. The bride liked my photos, but I didn’t get any connections out of it because I wasn’t ready and they knew it. (I had been in
business 10 years at this point) That experience taught me what more spendy weddings look like and what those clients might want. I’ve slowly raised my prices and added things that
wealthier clients would appreciate more. More customized service, better workflow, more interfacing with planners. Oh and I never ever use the word “Luxury.” That’s like shorthand
for “overpriced mid market.” Show don’t tell is better in this space. u/Life-Experience47 avatar Life-Experience47 • 8mo ago This is the exact same thing that happened to me. I got
a wedding that was a million dollar wedding and I didn’t realize it because the bride was so cool. And they were having it on the street which is still weird to me. But anyway I
learned from that and started teaching myself how to get brides who could afford more but also who wouldn’t nickel and dime me to death, which let’s face it we all hate that. So I
started educating myself with podcasts and books. I taught myself marketing. Updated my website to be more attractive to brides. And also learned the hard way that there are
certain brides I do NOT want. I’m not there yet of course - life is a journey - but I really feel proud that I’ve improved myself to the point where I could do higher caliber
weddings Im not a photographer by the way. I’m a wedding caricature artist. Everyone in my field tends to be not professional enough to do weddings. So I joined this and other
groups. Yo I can learn something from everyone. 1 more reply IluminEdu • 8mo ago Breaking into luxury weddings is less about “leveling up your gear or edits” and more about
aligning yourself with the right ecosystem. High-budget weddings are usually driven by planners, venues, and vendor networks, they’re the gatekeepers. Styled shoots with the right
teams, building trust with planners, and consistently showing polished work that matches the aesthetic of that market will move the needle faster than ads. Couples at that level
aren’t price-shopping, they want confidence and exclusivity, so your branding, consistency, and vendor relationships matter way more than versatility. X4dow • 8mo ago Not branding.
Not quality work. Often is by being good at marketing first. Getting all the top venues and planners to push you. Imagine this, big venue in your area, doing high end weddings,
they have 5 recommended photographers. You chat a lot with the owners/venue planner when you're there, get friendly. Ask if you could discuss some business with them and boom tell
em, if you recommend me, "I'll personally give to 1k cash" per wedding. And voila, you didn't spent 1 cent in marketing, just up your prices by 2k, give 1k to the venue/planner
that pushes your work and before you know it, you're doing high end weddings only and your portfolio will look amazing on its own, as highend weddings are simply easier to build a
great portfolio from. Do I do this? No, but I know some who did similar things to this to get to the top and eventually you'll be so known as being "the high end photographer" that
you don't need to pay anything to anyone, high end clients simply come to you as you are known as "the best". That's 1 way of doing it. One thing I can't assure you won't work is
paying so called "gurus" that claim you can sell weddings for 10k by buying their mssterclass/workshop. Those people incomes is selling workshops and masterclasses, not shooting
weddings. u/GazelleLow4623 avatar GazelleLow4623 OP • 8mo ago That’s super interesting, thanks for sharing it so openly. I can see how venues and planners can be a huge gatekeeper
in this industry. I’ve always wondered though do you think paying commissions like that could backfire in some markets? For example, if couples found out or if venues worked with
too many vendors this way. Either way, I totally agree with you about the “gurus.” It’s refreshing to hear real strategies from photographers instead of the usual “buy my workshop”
pitch. X4dow • 8mo ago Highend brides heavily rely on planners to book and organize the day for them.. And often those planners cost nothing to the brides. Their income is
basically all those referal fees. I'm on a highend wedding group with brides talking about 100k dresses and stuff like that like it's nothing and everything someone is planning a
wedding there /destination wedding etc all planners throw themselves as free at it as they get their income from the other suppliers 1 more reply 4 more replies u/iamjapho avatar
iamjapho • 8mo ago I started doing destination weddings and it slowly took off from there. 3 more replies u/NYSE avatar u/NYSE • Promoted The Global X NYSE®100 ETF (NYSX) provides
an innovative portfolio solution without constraints of exchange listings or restrictive sector definitions. Learn how NYSX can fit into your portfolio: https://gxetfs.com/41iL59i
The Global X NYSE®100 ETF (NYSX) provides an innovative portfolio solution without constraints of exchange listings or restrictive sector definitions. Learn how NYSX can fit into
your portfolio: https://gxetfs.com/41iL59i The Global X NYSE®100 ETF (NYSX) provides an innovative portfolio solution without constraints of exchange listings or restrictive sector
definitions. Learn how NYSX can fit into your portfolio: https://gxetfs.com/41iL59i The Global X NYSE®100 ETF (NYSX) provides an innovative portfolio solution without constraints
of exchange listings or restrictive sector definitions. Learn how NYSX can fit into your portfolio: https://gxetfs.com/41iL59i The Global X NYSE®100 ETF (NYSX) provides an
innovative portfolio solution without constraints of exchange listings or restrictive sector definitions. Learn how NYSX can fit into your portfolio: https://gxetfs.com/41iL59i The
Global X NYSE®100 ETF (NYSX) provides an innovative portfolio solution without constraints of exchange listings or restrictive sector definitions. Learn how NYSX can fit into your
portfolio: https://gxetfs.com/41iL59i go.globalxetfs.com Learn More u/josephallenkeys avatar josephallenkeys • 8mo ago u/evanrphoto can probably copy and paste one of his replies
from many past threads 😅 u/evanrphoto avatar evanrphoto • 8mo ago Haha… I was just thinking to myself… man I want to respond but don’t really have the 15min it’s going to take me
to compose my thoughts on this. And the first 5min of it would be my issue with the concept and usage of “luxury”. 1 more reply u/This-Bowl5123 avatar This-Bowl5123 • 8mo ago Shot
a couple luxury weddings this summer. Will not be moving my business that way. It felt awful. So fake. So much stress. So much nonsense. Question if you really want that and if
it’s worth it. u/Kodak_Portra avatar Kodak_Portra • 8mo ago The luxury industry isn’t what it seems - the definition of luxury will vary based on who you discuss. Is the goal to
charge X amount per wedding? Nobody would peg me as a luxury photographer / cinematographer despite the amount i make per wedding and type of clients i attract, but the amount I
make per wedding would be eye popping to some. I think aligning yourself with ideal clients in a space / price bracket you’re comfortable with will go a much longer way imo. The
“luxury” segment of the industry is a lot smaller than it seems, a lot of photographers who are “known” or aligned in that space aren’t making the insane figures people think they
are (maybe 1% of them are, but that’s very very small number of photographers) , there’s also a lot behind the curtain that people don’t openly discuss like the amount of time /
money you’ll have to invest per-client, the kick backs that are expected by some planners etc. the landscape of wedding media right now is so toxic and full of disinformation
thanks to BS blogs and Instagram accounts that position themselves as experts or influencers. In terms of what the perceived luxury market is in the wedding space at moment, as
others have mentioned, it’s about dick-riding the right people to get “access” to certain clients or opportunities. If you’re the type of person who’s comfortable bending over for
people with the chance of getting nothing in return, have it, it’s not my style per-say but it’s definitely a way to get into the door. Personally I’ve always let my work attract
the right people and i often have clients reach out to me directly as they by-pass the referral and suggestions of the planners. Once I’m on the job i create an amazing experience
for the client and vendors and stay on the radar that way vs cold-calling and begging planners and venues to add me to any sort of list. u/GazelleLow4623 avatar GazelleLow4623 OP •
8mo ago This is one of the most refreshing takes I’ve read on this topic thank you for saying it out loud. I really connect with what you said about aligning with the right clients
instead of chasing a label. For me, the long-term goal is to create meaningful, artistic work for couples who actually value it. and to build relationships that feel real, not
transnacional. The point about the “curtain” in this industry really hit me too. It’s easy to get caught up in the image of what luxury looks like on Instagram, but hearing your
perspective makes me want to double down on focusing on the work itself and the client experience. u/Kodak_Portra avatar Kodak_Portra • 8mo ago Believe me, social media is a lie.
Over the years I’ve gotten opportunities to work alongside highly recognized names in the industry and it was blatantly obvious to me that social media marketing doesn’t represent
reality. The wedding industry lately has been so obsessed with personal branding and image perception to our peers , now everyone is chasing some made up thing that has no depth or
meaning. I wish you well on the journey and hopefully you don’t get too caught up in things that don’t really matter and find success and happiness without sacrificing your own
integrity as an artist or individual. 1 more reply 1 more reply FunkyTownPhotography • 8mo ago Show what you want to shoot. I did luxury and celebrity weddings for years and a
large part of my success was strategically creating my portfolio photos. I started by attracting fashion focused couples by strategically showing fashion inspired images on my
wedding portfolio. If something looked cheap or out of style, even if it was the best shot if my life, i didnt put it in my portfolio. I started to attract brides who spent at
least $1k on shoes alone. They valued style and I played up these details on my site. I then moved to attracting couples who had huge multi-day destination weddings offering
unlimited hours on the wedding day and packages for multiple days (luxury weddings often have welcome parties, pool parties, day after adventures for guests etc). Most of my
portfolio showed Party pics. It was hard work but so fun. Those couples were less about fashion and more about curating an awesome experience for their guests. These couples spent
thousands on lighting alone. I did search engine strategies with keywords relating to what these couples looked for... ie certain dress designers, shoe designers, high end venues,
high end cake trends etc. Another thing I did was cater to the wedding coordinator and other vendors. While focusing all on the couple's day there was slways opportunity to get
lots of detailed shots through the day. Coordinators also like it if you or yoyr second photograph room setups before guests arrive so I'd plan sone time around those shots.
Couples valued these shots too because they spent so much money and thought into the event look and feel. Sometimes we'd even do a first look at the reception or dinner setup with
the couple without guests which meant some portraits in the venue itself. When I created the final gallery fir each client I'd include a separated details gallery. It was for the
couple of course but (with permission) I'd also share with all vendors. I got goodwill and referrals. Alsi Get savvy with your evening lighting skills... a lot of luxury weddings
have high end light setups and your photos should make them look good. Pardon typos Comment Image 1 more reply u/Kodak_Portra avatar Kodak_Portra • 8mo ago My situation is a bit
unique since I only shoot film 100% for photo and video so offering both services doesn’t really hurt me in that way since I attract a very specific type of client that usually
values me as a creative regardless of medium (if that makes sense). I think in the analog world of weddings I’m definitely seen as an expert and both my photo and video work have a
level of cohesion that work well together that it isn’t jarring for my clients to see one next to the other since both “feel” like my work if that makes sense - my partner is also
a very established photographer so if I get booked for photo and video , they take the lead on photo while I handle the video element. I’ll never juggle both things solo as it
would just hinder my ability to do either job. I also have some friends I’ve met over the years while working productions (I’ve directed and worked as a camera OP for various
productions) that I can entrust to essentially fill the role of cinematographer on a wedding day if I’m shooting photo and video and my partner is unavailable or already booked. In
that instance I’m a quasi-director while focusing on photo so aesthetically things will still align and I can fulfil my own vision with both formats. I also often get hired for
just one of the services I offer, either photo or video, which is how I’ve gotten to work alongside a lot of big name photographers across North-America. I guess to answer your
specific question, if you love taking pictures nothing should stop you from offering that as an option for your business as long as you feel confident in providing a complete
customer experience and having a good sense of what’s expected from you from a clients perspective. If you can make images people will love then I think there’s value in pursuing
that option and you can always ease yourself to that point in various ways. I’ve been working weddings for a long time though, photographing them for maybe 5 years before video
came into the picture so it wasn’t an overnight decision or thing. I basically did a super short video at one wedding we shot years back (that had no dedicated video person) and
shared what I made and from there I’ve been booking video gigs pretty much non-stop alongside photographer jobs over the last 4 years. 2 more replies New to Reddit? Create your
account and connect with a world of communities. Continue With Phone Number By continuing, you agree to our User Agreement and acknowledge that you understand the Privacy Policy.
Related Answers Section Related Answers How to become a luxury wedding photographer? Luxury wedding photography on a budget Unique wedding photography styles to explore Best camera
settings for wedding shoots Tips for capturing candid moments at weddings More posts you may like Unpopular opinion: A lot of “luxury wedding photography” is just average
photography wrapped in expensive styling. r/WeddingPhotography • 10mo ago Unpopular opinion: A lot of “luxury wedding photography” is just average photography wrapped in expensive
styling. 274 upvotes · 98 comments What is a luxury wedding photographer? r/WeddingPhotography • 3mo ago What is a luxury wedding photographer? 51 upvotes · 41 comments If you had
a destination wedding, did you hire a photographer from out of town and what did it cost you? r/wedding • 6mo ago If you had a destination wedding, did you hire a photographer from
out of town and what did it cost you? 11 comments Promoted sidebar promoted post thumbnail Unpopular opinion: A lot of “luxury wedding photography” is just average photography
wrapped in expensive styling. r/photography • 10mo ago Unpopular opinion: A lot of “luxury wedding photography” is just average photography wrapped in expensive styling. 593
upvotes · 156 comments How do you get into the luxury/ultra high-end/ destination space? r/WeddingPhotography • 2y ago How do you get into the luxury/ultra high-end/ destination
space? 19 upvotes · 31 comments How Did You Get Your Job? r/cabincrewcareers • 1y ago How Did You Get Your Job? 7 upvotes · 4 comments Who is The Most Expensive Wedding
Photographer in the world? and what is their portfolio like? r/WeddingPhotography • 6y ago Who is The Most Expensive Wedding Photographer in the world? and what is their portfolio
like? 34 upvotes · 49 comments How did you handle payments getaway of your SaaS? (Morocco) r/SaaS • 8mo ago How did you handle payments getaway of your SaaS? (Morocco) 1 upvote · 1
comment Promoted sidebar promoted post thumbnail Luxury/high-end wedding photographers (10k+ per wedd) what do you include for the client?? r/WeddingPhotography • 2y ago
Luxury/high-end wedding photographers (10k+ per wedd) what do you include for the client?? 40 upvotes · 53 comments Where to get AC units in Fresno? How much did y’all pay?
r/fresno • 8mo ago Where to get AC units in Fresno? How much did y’all pay? 50 upvotes · 120 comments how did your wedding day change your perspective on wedding photography?
r/WeddingPhotography • 1mo ago how did your wedding day change your perspective on wedding photography? 19 upvotes · 37 comments Struggling to Find My Photography Niche – Love
Weddings but Less Interested in Directing People r/WeddingPhotography • 5mo ago Struggling to Find My Photography Niche – Love Weddings but Less Interested in Directing People 25
upvotes · 33 comments How tough is it to pitch a story in the Telugu industry? Need real advice from people inside. r/TollywoodGossips • 8mo ago How tough is it to pitch a story in
the Telugu industry? Need real advice from people inside. 17 upvotes · 14 comments Professional/Luxury Wedding Album Recommendations r/WeddingPhotography • 7d ago
Professional/Luxury Wedding Album Recommendations 7 upvotes · 25 comments Shot a wedding for the first time. How do you all do this weekly? r/WeddingPhotography • 7mo ago Shot a
wedding for the first time. How do you all do this weekly? 55 upvotes · 46 comments Brides, what do you wish was offered with your wedding photography package but wasn't?
r/WeddingPhotography • 11d ago Brides, what do you wish was offered with your wedding photography package but wasn't? 14 upvotes · 66 comments How did you get started in wedding
photography? r/WeddingPhotography • 2mo ago How did you get started in wedding photography? 5 upvotes · 48 comments How did you guys get research opportunities? r/premedcanada • 1y
ago How did you guys get research opportunities? 9 upvotes · 17 comments How do you handle wedding guests using you as their personal photographer? r/WeddingPhotography • 1y ago
How do you handle wedding guests using you as their personal photographer? 80 upvotes · 216 comments How did you get your job? r/UKJobs • 1y ago How did you get your job? 85
upvotes · 184 comments Do you ever stalk vacation spots online that you know you’ll never able to afford?? r/poor • 10mo ago Do you ever stalk vacation spots online that you know
you’ll never able to afford?? 50 upvotes · 34 comments So yeah… i just had one of the worst experiences shooting a wedding r/WeddingPhotography • 21d ago So yeah… i just had one of
the worst experiences shooting a wedding 103 upvotes · 57 comments Wedding photographers, what insurance are we using these days? r/WeddingPhotography • 3mo ago Wedding
photographers, what insurance are we using these days? 8 upvotes · 31 comments Wedding planner used my photos for advertisement. r/WeddingPhotography • 2mo ago Wedding planner used
my photos for advertisement. 57 upvotes · 89 comments How long do you plan to continue to be a Wedding Photographer? r/WeddingPhotography • 3mo ago How long do you plan to continue
to be a Wedding Photographer? 42 upvotes · 59 comments View Post in 日本語 Français Русский 简体中文 Português (Brasil) See more Community Info Section r/WeddingPhotography Join Wedding
photography This is the home of the wedding photographer community on Reddit and the place for wedding photographers, second photographers, assistants, and those aspiring to be
wedding photographers. This is a discussion based community and the place to share experiences, business insight, creative ideas about our work, and more. Show more Public Top
Posts Reddit reReddit: Top posts of September 17, 2025 Reddit reReddit: Top posts of September 2025 Reddit reReddit: Top posts of 2025 Reddit Rules Privacy Policy User Agreement
