required elaborate setups and creative positioning of the camera. He photographed social figures including Elbert Einstein, Richard Nixon and Clint Eastwood and is one of greatest
portrait photographers of his time. Later in his career, Helmsman began suspending his subject in mid air by asking them to jump right before he hit the shutter button. Many of
these images are compiled in his book Jump. The concept behind Jump was that when a person is preoccupied with jumping in the air they are no longer paying attention to what the
camera is doing. In 1941, Helmsman met Salvidor Dali and the two became good friends. They collaborated on projects together for over 30 years. The two most famous photographs from
their session are “Dali Atomicus” and “In Voluptas Mors” or Voluptuous Death. Edward Weston Website “Consulting the rules of composition before taking a photograph, is like
consulting the laws of gravity before going for a walk.” Edward-Weston-Pepper-30 Photo by Edward Weston Born in 1886, Edward Weston was one of the most influential and innovative
photographers of his time. His subjects mostly included portraits, nudes, still life and landscapes. For the first twenty years of his career he calculated exposures based on
estimation of his previous experience. Weston gained acclaim with his nudes but he began to shift his focus after the artist Henrietta Shore gave him honest feedback, explaining
that he was taking too many nudes and the images had lost their spark. Weston looked to her work for inspiration and began creating some of his most famous photographs including
Nautilus, (1927) and Pepper No 30, (1930). It was around this same time that Weston began to focus on landscape photography. Weston was introduced to Ansel Adams by their mutual
friend and photographer Willard Van Dyke. Adams and Weston would go on to become great friends and would take many photographic trips together. In 1937 Weston became the first
photographer to receive the Guggenheim Fellowship which allowed him to travel the US and focus on his landscape photography. Today, Weston’s photographs are some of the most
expensive ever sold with “ The Nude” selling for $1.6 million dollars in 2008. Recommended books include "Edward Weston" and "Edward Weston: The Early Years" Frans Lanting Website
“I think a photograph, of whatever it might be - a landscape, a person - requires personal involvement. That means knowing your subject, not just snapping at what’s in front of
you.” Frans-Lanting-Mountain-Lion Photo by Frans Lanting Frans Lanting is one of the great wildlife and nature photographers of recent time. His work spans more than three decades
with a focus on the preservation of our planet and all of the species that call it home. Lanting is a frequent contributor to National Geographic and was the photographer in
residence of the magazine for some time. He is also a member of the photo society. In 2006 Lanting launched "Life: A Journey Through Time". The project represents a vision of life
on earth from the big band to present day. Lanting has said the Life project was a synthesis of his career and was released as a book, exhibition as well as a multimedia symphony
with music by Phillip Glass. Frans Lanting has a selection of eight photography books on his website that are dedicated to this great planet that we call home. W. Eugene Smith
Website “Passion is in all great searches and is necessary to all creative endeavors." Pittsburgh steel worker 1955 - W. Eugene Smith Pittsburgh steel worker 1955 - W. Eugene Smith
W. Eugene Smith is often regarded as the single most important American photographer in the development of the editorial photo essay. Throughout his career as a photographer Smith
worked for Newsweek, Flying Magazine and Life. He was seen as stubborn by editors due to his powerful drive and vision. Early in his career he was fired from Newsweek for refusing
to use a medium format camera. Smith was a well known war photographer during World War II. He provided images for Ziff-Davis Publishing and Life magazine at that time. In 1945 he
was seriously injured while photographing the Battle of Okinawa in Japan. In the late 40’s Smith began to focus on photo essays with a humanist photography perspective. These photo
essays consists of some of Smith’s fines work and are a large part of his legacy. Some of Smith’s most notable essays and photographs include “Country Doctor” (1948) “
Nurse-Midwife” (1951) and “Pittsburgh Project” (1955). The Pittsburgh Project was considered by Smith as his greatest work. Notable Books by W. Eugene Smith Dream Street: W Eugene
Smith's Pittsburgh Project, The Jazz Loft Project: Photographs and Tapes of W. Eugene Smith from 821 Sixth Avenue, 1957–1965 and W.Eugene Smith : Photographs, 1934-75 Diane Arbus
"Freaks was a thing I photographed a lot. It was one of the first things I photographed, and it had a terrific kind of excitement for me. I just used to adore them. I still do
adore some of them." Diane Arbus Famous Photographer Photos by Diane Arbus Born on March 14th 1923, Diane Arbus took up photography in in the early 1940’s. She was largely
self-taught and is now one of the most well-known names in the field. She began her career as a fashion photographer when her grandfather’s fur company commissioned her work. From
1947 though 1958 Arbus created photographs with her husband Allan Arbus for Glamour, Vouge, Seventeen and other publications. She was also hired for advertising work that included
Greyhound, Maxwell House Coffee and Young & Ruibicam. In 1956 Arbus began study under Lisette Model who encouraged her to focus exclusively on her own work. Arbus eventually
abandoned fashion to peruse her own photography projects. She developed an affinity for people on the margins of society and in the 1960’s began publishing her work that was viewed
as controversial at the time in magazines such as Esquire, Harper’s Bazaar and Nova. Diane Arbus was highly praised and strongly criticized throughout her lifetime due to the
bizarre nature of some of her photographs. She is best known for expanding the idea of what is acceptable subject matter. By befriending, not objectifying her subjects, she was
able to capture a rare psychological intensity in her work but in spite of being widely published and achieving some artistic recognition during her time, Arbus struggled to
support herself through her work. In her time there wasn’t a large market for collecting photographs as works of art and her prints usually sold for $100 or less. Arbus has been
called a seminal figure in modern photography and is considered to be among the most influential artists of the the 20th century. Popular Diane Arbus books include Diane Arbus: An
Aperture Monograph, Diane Arbus Revelations and Diane Arbus: Untitled Jaromir Funke "The beginning point and the objective is emotion, an emotion in a certain sense, something like
a dream, where human fantasy is laid open and fairy tale-like rifts are mastered. Fairy tales, indeed, but created out of a photographic reality. A human dream, photographed in
order to relate it to others." Jaromir Funke - the top photographers of all time - glass plates Jaromir Funke - Glas Plates 1896 – 1945 | Jaromir Funke was one of the first
photographers to achieve abstraction in photography without suppressing the truthfulness of representation. Light and shadow played a pivotal role in Funke’s compositions. He
achieved photographs that resemble fine pencil drawings though the careful placement of simple objects and highly controlled light. Funke’s work could be described as abstract
still life photography. It simple yet complex and highly captivating. Funke studies Law, medicine and philosophy before eventually settling on photography. By 1922 he was a skilled
freelance photographer. In 1924 he cofounded the Czech Photographic Society with Josef Sudek and Adolf Schneeberger. He was also a respected teacher at the School of Arts and
Crafts in Bratislava from 1931 through 1935. He then moved on to teach at the State School of Graphic Arts in Prague from 1935 though 1944. Funke Died a premature death in 1945
when a WWII airstrike cut the power to the hospital where he was undergoing abdominal surgery. Popular books about Jaomir Funke include Jaromír Funke: Between Construction and
Emotion, Jaromír Funke and Photography Sees the Surface. Richard Avedon Website Richard Avedon fashion photography Fashion Photography by Richard Avedon Richard Avedon is
celebrated as one of the greatest photographers in the world because he redefined the very language of portrait and fashion photography. His images were never just about
appearance, they were about essence. With an uncompromising eye and a gift for psychological insight, Avedon had the ability to reveal the inner lives of his subjects, whether they
were world leaders, Hollywood icons, or ordinary people. His stark, white-background portraits stripped away distraction, leaving only the subject’s presence. Few photographers
have been able to so consistently capture both power and fragility in a single frame. In fashion, Avedon broke away from stiff studio conventions and breathed movement into his
work. He famously photographed models leaping, running, and laughing, injecting a sense of vitality and spontaneity into a genre that had often been rigid and posed. His
collaborations with Harper’s Bazaar and Vogue helped shape the golden age of fashion photography, making him not just a documentarian of style but a creator of visual culture. His
images felt alive, playful, and glamorous, yet they always carried a depth that elevated them beyond mere commercial work. Beyond fashion, Avedon’s documentary projects proved his
mastery extended far beyond glamour. His series In the American West is a haunting collection of portraits of working-class Americans, miners, drifters, and oil field workers. He
captured his subjects with the same dignity and intensity he afforded the famous. In these images, Avedon revealed the beauty and struggle of everyday lives, demonstrating his
empathy and his belief that every face carried a story worth telling. Avedon is considered one of the best photographers in the world because he blurred the line between glamour
and grit. His photographs have permanence; they are cultural landmarks. With his piercing vision, technical brilliance, and ability to connect with subjects on the deepest level,
Richard Avedon transformed photography into a medium of truth, vulnerability, and enduring artistry. Ansel Adams Website “Landscape photography is the supreme test of the
photographer – and often the supreme disappointment.” AnselAdams_Snake River Tetons and Snake River - Ansel Adams What would a greatest photographers of all time list be without
Ansel Adams? Ansel Adams is perhaps the most well known photographer in the world and is responsible for some of the most iconic images of the United States National Parks. The
Yosemite Sierra Nevada engulfed his entire being at an early age and could be considered one of the greatest influences in his photographic career. In 1919 Adams joined the Sierra
Club while becoming the hut keeper for The Leconte Memorial Lodge. The Sierra Club became responsible for Adam’s early photographic success as they published his images in the
club’s 1922 bulletin and offered him a one person show at the club’s headquarters in San Francisco. Adams would eventually serve on the Sierra Club’s board of directors for 37
years. Adam’s work was elevated when he met Albert M. Bender who was patron of the arts and published Adam’s first portfolio. Adam’s would go on to become friends and work with
many of his era’s most celebrated photographers and artists including Paul Strand, Edward Weston, Alfred Stieglitz, Georgia O'Keeffe and more. One cannot fully appreciate landscape
photography without fully appreciating Ansel Adams. Adam’s published many books over the course of his career, Ansel Adams: 400 Photographs is a beautiful book that covers the
gamut of his works. If you’re interested in learning more about Ansel Adam’s life and photographic story, the book Ansel Adams: An Autobiography is absolutely fantastic. Adams goes
into detailed and sometimes humorous stories from his entire life. I cannot recommend this book enough. Posted in Theory and tagged photography, the best, photographers,
influential, the greatest, inspiration. ← Previous: What is Fine Art Photography?Next: The Best Photography Galleries in Santa Fe New Mexico → Related Posts How to Insure your
Camera Gear How to Insure your Camera Gear What is Fine Art Photography? What is Fine Art Photography? Yosemite Fine Art Photography and Prints Yosemite Fine Art Photography and
Prints These Items Should Always be in your Camera Bag These Items Should Always be in your Camera Bag 10 Truths of Landscape Photography 10 Truths of Landscape Photography About
Mike Wardynski mike wardynski photography full profile photograph Hello, My name is Mike Wardynski. I’m a fine art photographer based out of Santa Fe, New Mexico. On the forefront
of wildlife & nature photography, I specialize in premium large scale prints, photography workshops and image licensing. Rooted in nature, my photography brings the joy and beauty
of the natural world to the walls of homes and offices around the world. Premium Fine Art Prints My premium fine art prints transform living spaces into natural wonders. With over
two decades of study, I'm devoted to creating photographic prints of unrivaled beauty and workmanship. From fine art papers to Lumachrome acrylic prints, I use only the finest
substrates and printing practices to create museum quality works of art. Custom Roma framing is available for collectors who want a ready-to-hang gallery quality piece of artwork.
Browse My Fine Art Gallery Collection Follow Follow on Instagram Follow on LinkedIn Follow on Medium Follow on Facebook Follow on YouTube Subscribe Email Address Which mailing list
would you like to subscribe to? Print Discounts & Exhibitions Workshops, Tutorials, and How-To Articles Search Enter search term(s) Search Contact Contact Mike Wardynski All
material © 2026 by Mike Wardynski. All rights reserved. Site by WideRange Galleries. Skip to main content Directions Open 10:00–5:00 Directions Animations: On Off Visit Exhibitions
& Events Art & Artists Utility Shop Support Open Global Search Visit Exhibitions & Events Art & Artists Utility Shop Support Open Global Search Breadcrumb Home Reveal additional
links… Articles 12 Documentary Photographers Who Changed the Way We See the World Article 12 Documentary Photographers Who Changed the Way We See the World 9 min read October 4,
2024 In this black-and-white photograph, five children sit closely together on a couch, reading different comic books and magazines. The comic books obscure the faces of the five
children, and they appear absorbed in their reading. A sixth child who appears to be a young boy sits on the ground in front of the couch next to a coffee table piled high with
dirty dishes and more comic books. His face is partially visible; he has light skin and dark hair, and he looks over his shoulder to the right. The children wear a variety of
clothing with different patterns, including long-sleeved shirts, dresses, belts, and long pants. The wall behind the couch is light gray, with the edge of a framed photo visible at
the top. Michael Jang, Study Hall, 1973, gelatin silver print, Charina Endowment Fund, 2022.119.1 The 1970s was a vibrant period, but also one of uncertainty. As the world changed
around them, photographers in the ’70s started their own visual revolution. They used their cameras to create a radical new vision for documentary photography—one that was
increasingly inclusive and experimental. They questioned the assumptions that photography is inherently truthful and objective. And they created new ways to engage with and give
agency to their subjects. Read on to discover their innovations in the medium. You can see their works in The ’70s Lens: Reimagining Documentary Photography from October 6, 2024,
through April 6, 2025. On this page: Michael Jang Anthony Barboza Nan Goldin William Christenberry Sophie Rivera Jim Goldberg Frank Espada Susan Hiller Jeanne Moutoussamy-Ashe
Marcia Resnick Joanne Leonard Martha Rosler In this black-and-white photograph, five children sit closely together on a couch, reading different comic books and magazines. The
comic books obscure the faces of the five children, and they appear absorbed in their reading. A sixth child who appears to be a young boy sits on the ground in front of the couch
next to a coffee table piled high with dirty dishes and more comic books. His face is partially visible; he has light skin and dark hair, and he looks over his shoulder to the
right. The children wear a variety of clothing with different patterns, including long-sleeved shirts, dresses, belts, and long pants. The wall behind the couch is light gray, with
the edge of a framed photo visible at the top. Michael Jang, Study Hall, 1973, gelatin silver print, Charina Endowment Fund, 2022.119.1 1. Michael Jang In his series The Jangs,
Michael Jang photographed family at home. His humorous photographs of their suburban lives expanded the concept of the “all-American” family—the Chinese American Jangs didn’t look
like The Brady Bunch. In Study Hall, Jang’s cousins and aunt sit together on a couch reading comics and a television guide, a messy tray of potato chips and dip on the table in
front of them. The covers of decidedly not studious publications block their faces, becoming stand-ins for their portraits. Jang’s delightful series was almost entirely forgotten.
The photographs, which he had first made while a student, sat in a box in the artist’s house for decades while he established a career as a commercial photographer. In the 2000s,
Jang reconsidered this series and shared it with museums, which began adding the photographs to their collections. His photographs took on a new light in the wake of a rise of
anti-Asian hate during the COVID-19 pandemic. In 2021, Jang wheatpasted images from The Jangs on buildings in San Francisco’s Chinatown. This grayscale photograph shows two people
standing close to each other. The person in the front is looking towards us and smiling widely, one hand on their chest and the other on their hip. They have dark skin and curly
dark hair that appears to be tied up with a bow. They are wearing a zippered sweater and pants with zippered pockets. The person behind them is taller, and they are looking to the
left with a slight smile. This person also has dark skin, and they are wearing a knitted black hat and a checkered vest over a collared shirt with a striped floral pattern. The
background features a cityscape with buildings, cars, and a large sign that is mostly obscured by the two people. Anthony Barboza, New York City, 1970s, gelatin silver print,
Alfred H. Moses and Fern M. Schad Fund, 2021.35.4 2. Anthony Barboza At a time of inequality and adversity for New York City’s Black community, Anthony Barboza created empowering
photographs. Barboza was a founding member of the Kamoinge Workshop, a group of Black photographers formed in the city in 1963. He had arrived there that same year, having never
before taken a photograph. Kamoinge, and its influential members like Lou Draper and Roy DeCarava, inspired Barboza to buy a camera and photograph New York. Barboza was unlike some
earlier documentary photographers who sought to create distance or detachment from their subjects. He saw himself as intimately connected to the people on the other side of his
lens. “When you take a photograph of someone, you are taking a photograph of you as well. It’s like a mirror. You are feeling them, and they are feeling you.” Barboza went on to
establish a thriving commercial and personal practice focused largely on Black subjects. This black-and-white photograph shows a person's profile from the shoulders up. The person
is on the right side of the photograph, looking left, and they face a painting of a man. The person has light skin, high cheekbones, winged eye makeup, and pursed lips, and they
are wearing a black headscarf. They are dressed in a dark garment along with four strands of pearl necklaces. The painting on the left that they are looking towards depicts a man
resting his chin on his hands, looking thoughtful while smoking a cigarette in a cloud of smoke. The person in the photograph holds a lit match up to the cigarette of the painted
man with a black-gloved hand. Nan Goldin, Christmas at The Other Side, Boston, 1972, gelatin silver print, Patrons' Permanent Fund, 2008.30.16 3. Nan Goldin Nan Goldin created a
visual record of the LGBTQ+ community at a time when it was largely invisible. Her intimate photographs showed her queer and transgender friends going about their daily
lives—walking through the park, hanging out at a bar, drinking tea at home. “Completely devoted to my friends, they became my whole world. Part of my worship of them involved
photographing them. I wanted to pay homage, to show them how beautiful they were.” In Goldin’s photographs, her friends live openly and proudly queer lives in an era when there
were few safe spaces. Many images, like Christmas at The Other Side, Boston, show her circle at The Other Side, a Boston gay bar. William Christenberry, 5¢, Demopolis, Alabama,
1978, printed c. 2000, chromogenic print, Corcoran Collection (Gift of William and Sandra Christenberry), 2015.19.4888 4. William Christenberry Photographers like William
Christenberry adoption of color film transformed documentary photography. While the technology had existed for more than 50 years, “serious” photography had always been black and
white. Color prints were regarded as cheap and garish. Christenberry played a crucial role in securing recognition for color photography as an artistic, not just commercial,
medium. His photographs captured the transformation of places, recording their decline, death, and occasional rebirth. Based in Washington, DC, for most of his career,
Christenberry visited his native Alabama every year. There, he photographed the changes in the community where he had grown up over time, drawing our eye to everyday beauty we
might otherwise overlook. Sophie Rivera, Untitled, c. 1978–1979, printed 2006, gelatin silver print, Alfred H. Moses and Fern M. Schad Fund, 2024.8.1 5. Sophie Rivera To find
sitters for her series of fellow New Yorkers of Puerto Rican heritage (or Nuyoricans), Rivera looked to her Harlem neighborhood. She asked passersby if they were Puerto Rican. If
they said yes, she invited them to have their pictures taken in her home. Their grace and dignity reflect the trust between artist and subject. Rivera’s photographs were innovative
not just for her relationship with her subjects, but for her focus on the Puerto Rican or Nuyorican community. Rivera defined herself as “an artist, Latino, and feminist.” She
worked against simplistic and negative stereotypes, seeking to make Nuyoricans part of the grand history of American portrait photography. “I have attempted to integrate my
cultural heritage into an artistic continuum,” Rivera said. Jim Goldberg, Clyde Norbert, 1978, printed 1984, gelatin silver print, Corcoran Collection (Gift of the Artist),
2015.19.4477 6. Jim Goldberg Like Sophie Rivera, Jim Goldberg also explored new ways to engage his subjects. In his series Rich and Poor, Goldberg made portraits of San Franciscans
where they lived. He asked his subjects to respond to his pictures by writing directly on them. Goldberg called this collaboration “total documentation,” believing that it “would
bring an added dimension, a deeper truth” than a photograph alone. The series highlighted structural racism as well as the wealth gap. The soaring inflation of the 1970s—(14
percent by the end of the decade) deepened the divide between rich and poor. Goldberg was optimistic that his works could help effect change, “I believed, I really believed, that
once people saw what was happening, then we, as a society, would fix it.” After the ’70s, Goldberg continued to photograph overlooked or neglected groups. His subjects included
elderly people in nursing homes, homeless youth, and refugees resettling in Europe. Frank Espada, Mother and Daughter, Hartford, Connecticut, 1982, gelatin silver print, Pepita
Milmore Memorial Fund, 2023.26.2 7. Frank Espada Equal parts photographer and activist, Espada saw his camera as a tool to advocate for change. His lifelong dedication to both
causes was spurred by personal experience: he was arrested and imprisoned for a week after refusing segregated seats on a bus. For The Puerto Rican Diaspora Documentary Project,
Frank Espada photographed Puerto Ricans across the country. Portraits such as Mother and Daughter honestly capture the diaspora—and those who returned to Puerto Rico. (Espada
himself migrated from Puerto Rico to New York at age 9.) Made between 1970 and 2000, the project includes thousands of photographs of Puerto Ricans in their homes, workplaces, and
communities. It spans from Honolulu, Hawaii, to Hartford, Connecticut. Espada also collected more than 100 oral histories. (They are now in the archives of Smithsonian’s National
Museum of American History.) Espada also used his photographs to bring awareness to issues like the HIV/AIDS crisis. Susan Hiller, Ten Months, 1977–1979, 10 gelatin silver prints
and 10 text panels, Gift of the Collectors Committee, Alfred H. Moses and Fern M. Schad Fund, Gregory and Aline Gooding Fund, and David Knaus Fund, 2020.76.1.a-t 8. Susan Hiller
Documentary photography became central to the practice of many conceptual artists in the 1970s. For some, photographic documents served as the works themselves. For others, the
photographs were a way to preserve the artist’s ideas. Feminist artist Susan Hiller used the camera to reflect on the physical and psychic weight carried during pregnancy. In Ten
Months, Hiller makes herself both the subject of her art and the object of her own gaze. Ten framed pictures are each made up of 28 individual photographs—one for each day of the
lunar month. These photographs document Hiller’s growing belly over the course of her pregnancy. They are paired with texts from the artist’s journal. In contrast to sentimental
notions of pregnancy, these texts criticize women’s unequal position in society. This is a black-and-white photograph showing two women standing outdoors. The woman closest to is
smiling widely, looking right at us. She has dark skin and short, curly, black hair. She is wearing a white one-shoulder dress with a lacy floral design on the side, a string of
pearls around her neck, a white bracelet, a ring, and round earrings. She is holding a bouquet of three white flowers tied with a ribbon, and she has white high heels on her feet.
Behind her on the left is the second woman, who also looks out at us, smiling. She is wearing a high-necked white dress and a long, lacy veil. She also has dark skin and short,
dark, curly hair under the veil. She holds a large bouquet of light-colored flowers in one hand, and a pair of white high heels in the other hand. On her feet she wears fuzzy gray
slippers. The ground beneath the women is covered with grass and a few fallen leaves, and behind them is a dirt road with two cars passing by. Another car is partially visible on
the right. Beyond the road are tall gray trees with a sliver of white sky visible near the upper right corner. Jeanne Moutoussamy-Ashe, Maid of Honor with Bride in Slippers,
Daufuskie Island, South Carolina, 1980, printed 2022, gelatin silver print, Gift of Funds from Diana and Mallory Walker, 2024.7.3 9. Jeanne Moutoussamy-Ashe Documentary
photographers of the 1970s often created more holistic pictures of the communities they recorded. No longer detached observers, some photographers of this era ingrained themselves
in communities, building trust and understanding. Over the course of her extended visits to South Carolina’s Daufuskie Island between 1977 and 1981, Jeanne Moutoussamy-Ashe
developed a bond with the residents. She was able to depict their dignity and joy. She also captured their uncertainty in the face of rapid development on the island. Located off
the southern coast of South Carolina, Daufuskie remained isolated. Its inhabitants, descended directly from enslaved people, had been able to keep their distinct Gullah language
and culture. Moutoussamy-Ashe’s photographs became important records of this community—by the time her photographs were published in a book in 1982, the island’s permanent Gullah
population had dwindled to 85 residents. Today, that population represents only 2.5 percent of the island’s full-time residents. This is a black-and-white photograph of hands
holding an open book. The hands press into the paper, holding the book open. The nails of the hand appear painted. The pages of the book reveal a passage from "A Tale of Two
Cities" by Charles Dickens. The right page displays the concluding line and "THE END" is printed at the bottom. The edges of the paper are slightly worn. A handwritten note below
the photograph reads: "She always read the endings of books before the beginnings," with the name "Marcia Resnick" on the right edge. Marcia Resnick, She always read the endings of
books before the beginnings., 1978, gelatin silver print, Robert B. Menschel and the Vital Projects Fund, 2014.178.1 10. Marcia Resnick A traumatic car accident motivated Marcia
Resnick to turn her camera inward. In her series Re-Visions, Resnick staged photographs to explore, with humor and irony, memories of her adolescence. She used models to reenact
her imagined youth, blurring the lines between truth and fiction. In She always read the endings of books before the beginnings., hands with polished fingernails hold down the
final pages of Charles Dickens’s A Tale of Two Cities. The right index finger underscores the words “The end.” In another photograph, a woman stands on her head with a book in
front of her. The viewer is left to ponder the gap between Resnick’s real childhood and her imagination. In turn, we also consider the accuracy of memory and how photography
constructs it. This grayscale photograph shows a wall from the interior of a house. Slightly above center is a white, wall-mounted phone with a coiled cord that hangs downward.
Below the phone is a notepad with some faint words and numbers written on it, and below that is a calendar for November 1975. A decorative plaque with an inscription hangs to the
left of the phone above a light switch decorated with white flowers. The wall behind these objects is white. On the right side are sheer drapes, while on the left another room is
partially visible, displaying a lamp and the edges of other furniture pieces. Joanne Leonard, Memo Center with Wall Plaque, c. 1975, gelatin silver print, Gift of the Artist in
honor of her daughter, Julia Marjorie Leonard, 2020.117.16 11. Joanne Leonard Joanne Leonard has described her narrative-rich scenes of everyday life as “intimate documentary.” She
was part of a wave of photographers who examined the social landscape of domestic spaces in the 1970s. The feminist artist recorded parts of the home that were traditionally
associated with women and often overlooked. Her goal was “to make everyday life of women a subject of some importance.” Dotted curtains, a flowered light switch plate, and a
humorous wall plaque add a personal touch to this carefully framed picture of a so-called memo center—an area near a wall phone where notes could be jotted down that was popular in
1970s homes. The plaque reads “My house is clean enough to be healthy, and dirty enough to be happy.” To the left of center in this print is black-and-white scene showing two
soldiers standing in a rocky trench, both wearing jackets and helmets, with two long guns behind them. Overlaying this central image are long pale yellow drapes or curtains hanging
down on either side in thick folds, covered in small white decorative patterns. On the right, a black-and-white woman with pale skin and short, dark hair stands facing the left,
vacuuming the curtains with a vacuum that hangs over her shoulder. She is wearing a gray, short-sleeved dress and is looking up towards the soldiers in the central scene. Martha
Rosler, Cleaning the Drapes, 1967–1972, printed 2007, inkjet print, Gift of the Collectors Committee and Pepita Milmore Memorial Fund, 2015.76.1 12. Martha Rosler Documentary
photographers turned to new subjects in the 1970s, but some continued to draw on the genre’s history of pushing for social change. Photographers like Martha Rosler found new
approaches to engaging with politics. Rosler created photomontages by combining gritty news photographs of the Vietnam War with home-related advertisements culled from glossy
women’s magazines. In Cleaning the Drapes she pairs a woman cleaning patterned drapes with two tired soldiers smoking amid rocks and sandbags. Her vacuum wand points to and echoes
the soldiers’ rifles. The jolting collision of war imagery and affluent domestic space gives visual form to the description of the conflict as “the living room war”—so called
because it appeared on television news nightly. Rosler distributed photocopies from the series, House Beautiful: Bringing the War Home at anti–Vietnam War demonstrations. You may
also like The painting features a valley with purple and brown mountains in the distance, surrounding a reflective body of water with a small rowboat floating on it. Closer to us,
there are gray rocks, brown tree trunks and branches, and lush green vegetation at the edge of the water. The sky above is painted in warm shades of yellow, peach, and orange,
which transition to pale greenish-blue at the top. The water below reflects these colors, as well as those of the distant mountain and surrounding trees. Article Article: Who Is
Elizabeth Gilbert Jerome? 5 Things to Know The Hudson River School painter created landscapes that captured America’s natural splendor. Article Article: Who is Emily Kam Kngwarray?
One of Australia's most revered artists only began making art in her 60s. Her works are portals into her Country. Site Footer Home National Gallery of Art Hours Admission is always
free. Open 10:00–5:00 Locations West Building 6th St and Constitution Ave NW Washington, DC 20565 East Building 4th St and Constitution Ave NW Washington, DC 20565 Sculpture Garden
7th St and Constitution Ave NW Washington, DC 20565 Newsletter Sign Up Form Art news every week * indicates required Email Address * Enter your email Follow us Social Media
Facebook Instagram Pinterest Twitter YouTube Footer Primary Menu About About Us Press Contact Us Visit Plan Your Visit Calendar Today's Tours Accessibility Exhibitions Get Involved
Donate Membership Opportunities Research Free Images for Download Artwork Search The Center Conservation Library Archives Past Exhibitions Publications © 2026 National Gallery of
Art Legal Links Notices Privacy Policy RMCAD Student Portal Learning Management System REQUEST INFO APPLY NOW Search Search... Photography Pioneers Blog Graphic Photography
Pioneers: 21 Famous Photographers Who Redefined the Medium April 18, 2024 Photography is often described as a scientific art — one in which the artist works to create an image by
recording light. Initially, photography required the use of an image-sensor camera, but today, most photographers capture their images electronically. Whether you are an aspiring
artist or an experienced professional looking to elevate your career, you will find that you can look to the most influential photographers for inspiration. The Early Innovators
Per Encyclopedia Britannica, the first photograph was captured somewhere between 1826 and 1827, by a French inventor named Nicephore Niepce. From there, the concept of creating an
authentic and genuine image took off, with 19th century inventors and enthusiasts using experimental photography techniques to try to capture images. Julia Margaret Cameron Julia
Margaret Cameron, a trailblazer in the realm of portrait photography, left an indelible mark on the art form with her distinctive approach. Active during the 19th century, Cameron
was renowned for her powerful, closely cropped portraits that captured the emotional depth and personality of her subjects, diverging from the typical portrait style of her time.
Her work, characterized by soft focus and ethereal qualities, emphasized the spiritual and aesthetic beauty of her sitters, which included notable figures of the Victorian era.
Despite initial criticism for her unconventional techniques, Cameron’s legacy endures, highlighting her as a visionary who pushed the boundaries of photography to explore deeper
artistic expression. Her contributions to the medium have inspired countless photographers, cementing her status as one of the pioneering figures in photographic history. Henry Fox
Talbot Today, many photographers still rely on the negative-positive photographic process, which was created and developed by Henry Fox Talbot, as reported by the International
Photography Hall of Fame and Museum. Talbot was a scientist and a mathematician who was deeply interested in light and optics, and his research led him to develop the process that
would go on to revolutionize modern photography. Documentary and Street Photography While the art of photography first focused on portraiture, it soon became a medium that allowed
artists to capture daily life as we know it. Dorothea Lange Considered to be one of the most influential documentary photographers, Dorothea Lange focused much of her work on
capturing images of migrants during the Great Depression. Her stoic images evoked strong emotions in those who were able to view them, providing a realistic glimpse into the
heartache and hardship of that era. Henri Cartier-Bresson Famous for capturing “the decisive moment,” Henri Cartier-Bresson managed to turn documentary photography into an art
form. Many influential photographers today say that they were inspired by his work. Ming Smith Ming Smith stands as a pioneering force in the realm of photography, renowned for her
evocative street photography and intimate portraits that capture the essence of African American life. As the first Black woman photographer to have her work acquired by the Museum
of Modern Art in New York, Smith’s contributions to the medium are monumental. Her images, often characterized by their lyrical, dream-like quality, explore themes of identity,
community, and the African diaspora, blending realism with abstraction to convey the complexity of Black existence. Smith’s work transcends mere documentation, inviting viewers
into a deeply personal yet universally resonant narrative, and her legacy continues to inspire new generations of photographers to see the world through a more empathetic and
nuanced lens. Portrait Photography The art of portraiture has been around for thousands of years, and portrait photography continues in that tradition. Portrait images capture a
subject in an artistic way, often trying to convey feeling and experience through a person’s likeness. Richard Avedon Richard Avedon earned a reputation for creating provocative
images that expressed raw emotion, and his portraits were notoriously controversial, according to Picture Frames Express. Many of his portraits were taken close-up with the
subjects looking directly into the camera, conveying powerful emotion in each shot. Diane Arbus Rather than dabbling in celebrity portrait photography, Diane Arbus took a different
approach. She focused her career on the outliers of society. Seeking to uncover the most unique personalities in a community, she became a legend among urban street artists. James
