jobs, rather than worry about SEO. I’m not saying SEO isn’t important (it very much is!) but in my experience luxury clients tend to pick a destination, hire a planner then go from
there. FYI I’m based in Europe so things might differ a little over here, but I regularly shoot for international clients who fly over and this has been my experience syrup_taster
• 3y ago I second this. Its building good relationships with planners u/alanonymous_ avatar alanonymous_ • 3y ago We shoot high profile clients here. However, our style is
documentary, not editorial. We also aren’t photographing celebrities regularly, though we do have one every now and then. I’m not sure I’d make celebrities a goal of photographing,
but up to you. Our clients are high-profile, many don’t want images shared, and typically old-money (think senator’s children, CEO’s of major banks/businesses children, etc) -
usually the clients themselves are highly successful as well - attorneys, doctors, wealth management, real estate, etc. Most of our clients are in their late 20’s to early 30’s.
Anyway, ok, to your question - We shoot with the R5 and use primarily the 35, 50, 85, 135, and 200 f2.0. We tend to shoot at low apertures (2.0 and below). We tend to use bounced
light when we can (using canon EL-1 on camera flashes) and sometimes lights behind for rim light (we usually don’t use stands - the less in the way, the better, for our clients).
These clients don’t use google to find their photographers (usually - we did have one celebrity client find us through google several years ago). It’s almost always exclusively
word of mouth. Like, 99.99% of the time, word of mouth. You photographed their friends’ wedding. Or, a planner that you have worked with before recommended you. Once you’re in,
it’s not too hard to get future clients. Getting in can be difficult as a planner doesn’t want to recommend you until they’ve worked with you … and they can’t work with you,
because they aren’t recommending you. It’s a bit of a catch-22 (so, luck and timing). I wouldn’t waste my time on google or SEO if you’re targeting high end clients. That’s just
not how they’re going to find you. Maybe instagram & TikTok - but, honestly, a lot of our clients don’t use either of those. It’s about being in-person with them and trust. Hope
this helps! The best advice I can give is learn proper etiquette, be yourself, be relaxed & confident, and be ready when an opportunity presents itself. Also, be willing to say no
to a client who sounds like they’ll be difficult to work with (it’s better to have not shot the wedding than have bad word of mouth about what you did or didn’t do for them - their
expectations might be beyond what’s possible in a day. You don’t want clients like this, imo) u/Tempur-Pedic avatar u/Tempur-Pedic • Promoted TIL: TEMPUR-Ergo® Smart Bases detect
snoring & adjust automatically^—powered by Sleeptracker-AI®🙌 TEMPUR-Ergo® ProSmart® Base TEMPUR-Ergo® ProSmart® Base TEMPUR-Ergo® ProSmart® Base TEMPUR-Ergo® ProSmart® Base
tempurpedic.com Shop Now GummyPhotog • 3y ago As long as your gear is considered professional unless you are niching down to like film or something your gear isn’t what makes you
luxury. Your client experience is what makes you luxurious- the products you choose to sell do that as well. Honestly I’d tell you to sit tight where you are and learn all you can.
You aren’t ready for the luxury lane yet u/evanrphoto avatar evanrphoto • 3y ago Pro tip: it has nothing to do with your gear, and little to do with your photography and skill.
Also, luxury, celebrity, and destination are all essentially different markets although there can be overlap. SLPERAS • 3y ago • Edited 3y ago Equipment doesn’t matter. Are you
living in a place where high profile clients are? i.e LA or NYC. You get to high profile clients via high profile event planners. Check them out and build a relationship. I asked
Joe Buissink what he is shooting with couple months back. He is still using DSLR and film. For lenses he uses 24-70 and 70-200 and a 14mm lens. Yervant said he is using canon
mirrorless with 24-104 f4. Susan Stripling R5 and bunch of primes and 24-105. So everyone is different and use whatever that let them produce the best work they can. FroggyLemon OP
• 3y ago Interesting! Most higher end photogs I have talked with here stay away from zoom/telephoto and stick with prime lenses. I can DEFINITELY see the difference in quality with
my primes, but I don’t think my clients can. Editing to add: I live in Savannah which is HUGE for weddings right now. A handful of celebrities have gotten married around here
recently so it gives me hope that I can stay here for a few more years before moving out west. 7 more replies hotdogs-r-sandwiches • 3y ago It’s more about style than gear. I know
people who shoot celebrities and high profile weddings who use a little bit of everything. DSLR and mirrorless but the difference is they: shoot film, have a documentary style and
have relationships with planners. Someone who’s paying $20k for a wedding photographer isn’t necessarily out shopping for vendors themselves, so finding planners you get along well
with is really the key in the luxury market. Once you’re in with them, they start throwing work your way. u/Grouchy_Eye5516 avatar Grouchy_Eye5516 • 3y ago • Edited 3y ago Ive been
shooting normal weddings on and off for a while and decided I wanted to hit the big luxury market after shooting a wedding in Hong Kong a few years ago. I shoot commercially for a
studio in Australia after getting pretty bored of weddings and put my focus on the luxury market . I’ve just managed to get a film and photo booking for 40k ( Australian ) for a
Hong kong wedding ( a Jewish couple from New York ) All I’m taking is 2 Sony a7iii 35mm 50mm and 85mm and my film maker will take the same but worth a7siii. I use flash on the
dance floor and that’s it. The client saw some full galleries ( all documentary no crappy posing and loved it ) This was through a wedding planner who contacted me, google will not
land you these clients. I can imagine the client finds the planner and says here is a million dollars now sort it all out for me. There will also be an assistant for both .
throwawaythrowyellow • 3y ago Also this may go without saying … make sure you look like a luxury photographer. Don’t show up in flip flops …. You don’t have to dress expensively
but ensure you are dressed well ibetyouranerd • 3y ago I shot celebrity and vip weddings for about a decade, and have been published in People magazine among others. Here’s my gear
list I used for 99% of my wedding career (keep in mind this was 10 years ago): Camera: 2x Canon 5dIII Lenses: 16-35 f2.8, 35 f1.4, 50mm 1.2, 85mm 1.2, 135mm f2, 70-200mm f2.8 Light
kit: various flashes, a few strobes, reflectors. You can certainly use higher end equipment but not necessary unless it facilitates your style and aesthetic. The key to getting
these types of clients is all in how you market yourself, your quality of work and your ability to network with wedding planners. New to Reddit? Create your account and connect
with a world of communities. Continue With Phone Number By continuing, you agree to our User Agreement and acknowledge that you understand the Privacy Policy. Related Answers
Section Related Answers Best practices for luxury wedding photography Top wedding photographers in the world Best celebrity wedding dresses Tips for capturing candid moments at
weddings Best lenses for wedding photography More posts you may like Brides, what do you wish was offered with your wedding photography package but wasn't? r/WeddingPhotography •
11d ago Brides, what do you wish was offered with your wedding photography package but wasn't? 14 upvotes · 66 comments Struggling to Find My Photography Niche – Love Weddings but
Less Interested in Directing People r/WeddingPhotography • 5mo ago Struggling to Find My Photography Niche – Love Weddings but Less Interested in Directing People 25 upvotes · 33
comments Whos a good famous photographer ? r/photography • 3y ago Whos a good famous photographer ? 135 upvotes · 346 comments Promoted sidebar promoted post thumbnail Famous
people who are also photographers r/photography • 12y ago Famous people who are also photographers 8 upvotes · 45 comments Celeb Weddings shot by Joseph Radhik (Throwback)
r/BollyBlindsNGossip • 3y ago Celeb Weddings shot by Joseph Radhik (Throwback) r/BollyBlindsNGossip - Celeb Weddings shot by Joseph Radhik (Throwback) 8 94 upvotes · 32 comments
Who are the most influential wedding photogs right now? r/WeddingPhotography • 2y ago Who are the most influential wedding photogs right now? 61 upvotes · 90 comments
Luxury/high-end wedding photographers (10k+ per wedd) what do you include for the client?? r/WeddingPhotography • 2y ago Luxury/high-end wedding photographers (10k+ per wedd) what
do you include for the client?? 40 upvotes · 53 comments Photography by famous people r/photography • 3y ago Photography by famous people 1 upvote · 10 comments Promoted sidebar
promoted post thumbnail Who is The Most Expensive Wedding Photographer in the world? and what is their portfolio like? r/WeddingPhotography • 6y ago Who is The Most Expensive
Wedding Photographer in the world? and what is their portfolio like? 34 upvotes · 49 comments Favorite celebrity couples photos - candids, posed, paparazzi, red carpet!
r/popculturechat • 4mo ago Favorite celebrity couples photos - candids, posed, paparazzi, red carpet! r/popculturechat - Favorite celebrity couples photos - candids, posed,
paparazzi, red carpet! 6 33 comments How to Become a Celebrity Portrait Photographer ft. Chris Buck r/photography • 8y ago How to Become a Celebrity Portrait Photographer ft. Chris
Buck r/photography - How to Become a Celebrity Portrait Photographer ft. Chris Buck youtube 72 upvotes · 5 comments Celebrity Photography Studio r/photography • 4mo ago Celebrity
Photography Studio 12 comments How did you get started in wedding photography? r/WeddingPhotography • 2mo ago How did you get started in wedding photography? 5 upvotes · 48
comments Who do you consider to be the most influential international photographers on trends in the world of weddings? r/WeddingPhotography • 10mo ago Who do you consider to be
the most influential international photographers on trends in the world of weddings? 9 upvotes · 21 comments Venue just sent me a "Photographer Agreement" a year after couple
booked me — am I overreacting? r/WeddingPhotography • 1mo ago Venue just sent me a "Photographer Agreement" a year after couple booked me — am I overreacting? 497 upvotes · 205
comments Q: What’s the most common path into the industry r/cinematography • 3y ago Q: What’s the most common path into the industry 2 upvotes · 9 comments Celebrity Photos by
Photographer Dave Benett 📸 r/popculturechat • 3y ago Celebrity Photos by Photographer Dave Benett 📸 r/popculturechat - Celebrity Photos by Photographer Dave Benett 📸 17 418 upvotes
· 40 comments Reddit Wedding Photographer Directory [Quarterly] r/WeddingPhotography • 6d ago Reddit Wedding Photographer Directory [Quarterly] 21 upvotes · 118 comments
Ex-journalists of Reddit, what's the best/easiest career transition for someone with 7years experience in the industry? r/Journalism • 3y ago Ex-journalists of Reddit, what's the
best/easiest career transition for someone with 7years experience in the industry? 20 upvotes · 31 comments Nationwide wedding photography studios taking local clients and hiring
local photographers to shoot these weddings. r/WeddingPhotography • 3y ago Nationwide wedding photography studios taking local clients and hiring local photographers to shoot these
weddings. 5 upvotes · 27 comments Videographer killed the vibe r/WeddingPhotography • 7mo ago Videographer killed the vibe 373 upvotes · 79 comments How do you light your reception
photos ? r/WeddingPhotography • 8mo ago How do you light your reception photos ? 5 upvotes · 36 comments Is spending $30k on a photographer crazy? r/BigBudgetBrides • 1mo ago Is
spending $30k on a photographer crazy? 16 upvotes · 40 comments Do wedding photographers get clients from Pinterest? r/WeddingPhotography • 9d ago Do wedding photographers get
clients from Pinterest? 9 upvotes · 20 comments Where do you find the BEST celebrity photos? r/popculturechat • 2mo ago Where do you find the BEST celebrity photos? 6 comments View
Post in 简体中文 हिन्दी Русский Português (Brasil) Tiếng Việt See more Community Info Section r/WeddingPhotography Join Wedding photography This is the home of the wedding photographer
community on Reddit and the place for wedding photographers, second photographers, assistants, and those aspiring to be wedding photographers. This is a discussion based community
and the place to share experiences, business insight, creative ideas about our work, and more. Show more Public Top Posts Reddit reReddit: Top posts of June 24, 2023 Reddit
reReddit: Top posts of June 2023 Reddit reReddit: Top posts of 2023 Reddit Rules Privacy Policy User Agreement Your Privacy Choices Accessibility Reddit, Inc. © 2026. All rights
reserved. Collapse Navigation Skip to main content Luxury editorial wedding photographer : r/BigBudgetBrides r/BigBudgetBrides Search in r/BigBudgetBrides Get App Log In Expand
user menu Skip to NavigationSkip to Right Sidebar Back Go to BigBudgetBrides r/BigBudgetBrides • 2y ago Able_Improvement_426 Profile Badge for the Achievement Top 1% Commenter Top
1% Commenter Luxury editorial wedding photographer BBBs! Which photographer are you using? Also curious who everyone’s talked to in the $30k to $40k range? And if you contracted
one, how have you liked them so far? I really like Kelly Brown, Norman and Blake, and Kristina Adams kind of style. These three are different price points though. We’re looking for
more of a high profile photographer but they don’t necessarily have to be celebrity photographers. Upvote 31 Downvote 51 Go to comments Share u/AmericanExpress avatar
AmericanExpress • Promoted Get up to $600 back each year on select hotel bookings with the Platinum Card®. Terms apply. Learn More americanexpress.com Thumbnail image: Get up to
$600 back each year on select hotel bookings with the Platinum Card®. Terms apply. Join the conversation Sort by: Best Search Comments Expand comment search Comments Section
u/tripleaw avatar tripleaw • 2y ago Profile Badge for the Achievement Top 1% Commenter Top 1% Commenter Have you tried Samm Blake and Kristin Marie Parker? They are both under the
same wedding artist collective run by Lisa who also reps Norman and Blake Upvote 17 Downvote Reply Award Share Able_Improvement_426 OP • 2y ago Profile Badge for the Achievement
Top 1% Commenter Top 1% Commenter Ohhh have you heard of Heather Waraksa? she was recommended to me I think also represented by that collective? Upvote 6 Downvote Reply Award Share
u/tripleaw avatar tripleaw • 2y ago Profile Badge for the Achievement Top 1% Commenter Top 1% Commenter Correct! Lisa has commented on this sub before / is super helpful so I would
reach out to her for any questions 1 more reply [deleted] • 2y ago Comment deleted by user 2 more replies u/tammicamp avatar tammicamp • 2y ago Came here to recommend Samm Blake!
[deleted] • 2y ago Comment deleted by user 2 more replies Whatsiupp • 2y ago • Edited 2y ago Joel & Justyna are in the $30-40k range - their core focus is luxury editorial wedding
photography and they just seemed so much more unique than every other team I met with. They are a steal, they could charge more, imo. u/tripleaw avatar tripleaw • 2y ago Profile
Badge for the Achievement Top 1% Commenter Top 1% Commenter Wow they raised prices!! I was quoted 20k a while back but honestly, they are well worth that 30-40k price tag Whatsiupp
• 2y ago Agree with you, I don’t think they fit the $20k - we got, what felt like, proper editorial libkahakaki • 2y ago We hired Joel & Justyna to shoot our wedding last year.
First bonus: you’re going to fan-girl/guy both of them. They just make every moment lovely and fun. They are always dressed really really really well (which matters, when it comes
to Editorial-style wedding photography?). Once you see all their portfolio (just creep their IG) you’ll know you’ve stumbled onto something very original. I found out that Joel WAS
an editorial photographer, has shot for Paul Smith and The Queen! (Past life in NY, Paris?). Definitely worth taking a look at their work! [deleted] • 2y ago Just wanted to chime
in here as there’s some misinformation. My brother and sis in law used J&J just over a year ago and paid about 15K. They only recently started charging the 30-40K price range (at
least my brother didn’t pay that price point). They were happy with the photos for what it’s worth. I think prices change based on some factors so keep that in mind. I think some
photographers charge less for opportunities they’re interested in which is why I think some ppl get wildly different quotes from the same photographer. I grew up and went to the
same high school as Joel. He was into modelling. His dad (very nice) was a local photographer and his father is the one who photographed the Queen and did editorial work, not Joel.
4 more replies 1 more reply Master_Figure_1594 • 2y ago Could you let us know what prices you were quoted for Norman and Blake and Kristina Adams [deleted] • 2y ago Norman and
Blake 40k u/AAOinfo avatar u/AAOinfo • Promoted Consult an AAO orthodontist to find out more about the cost of orthodontic treatment. Learn More aaoinfo.org Thumbnail image:
Consult an AAO orthodontist to find out more about the cost of orthodontic treatment. [deleted] • 2y ago John Dolan! u/evphoto avatar evphoto • 2y ago While I absolutely love John
- an incredible photographer and the kindest man - I wouldn’t describe him as editorial. He’s a documentary photographer through and through. 1 more reply [deleted] • 2y ago
Comment deleted by user 1 more reply [deleted] • 2y ago Greg Finck! You could also try Kristen Kilpatrick, same kind of vibe l0v39 • 2y ago Greg Finck is great! We were quoted
about 70k for our wedding, and didn’t feel like spending that on photos. u/kbah15 avatar kbah15 • 2y ago How much is Kristen? 1 more reply u/Whole-Professor1951 avatar
Whole-Professor1951 • 2y ago Calen Rose Christina McNeill Abigail Lewis Feather and Stone Sarah Falugo Tracy Burch Tec Petaja u/awayluggage avatar u/awayluggage • Promoted
Something old, something new, something that rolls into the overhead. Meet glossy limited-edition pieces and best sellers made for the trip after “I do.” Shop Now awaytravel.com
Thumbnail image: Something old, something new, something that rolls into the overhead. Meet glossy limited-edition pieces and best sellers made for the trip after “I do.”
bagelbabe69 • 2y ago Kristin Marie Parker. There is literally no one more talented or lovely in existence on this earth. u/Speaker-Current avatar Speaker-Current • 2y ago Niki
Marie Photography Mental_Ad5888 • 1y ago I'm surprised Sophie Berard hasn't been mentioned here! She's both editorial and documentary, a little more out of the box but based in
Europe. It seems she travels all over for work. New to Reddit? Create your account and connect with a world of communities. Continue With Phone Number By continuing, you agree to
our User Agreement and acknowledge that you understand the Privacy Policy. Related Answers Section Related Answers Cost of Norman and Blake photography Norman and Blake photography
is a luxury service, with costs typically ranging from $20,000 to $40,000, and potentially higher for multi-day events or international travel. This pricing reflects their high
demand, extensive experience, and often includes comprehensive coverage and additional services. Norman and Blake Pricing Overview High-End Investment: Norman and Blake are
considered luxury photographers, and their pricing reflects this status, often starting around $20,000. "For the big name photographers, that is absolutely the correct range."
Multi-Day Coverage: Costs can escalate for extended events, with some clients paying $45,000 for weekend-long photography in locations like France. "We are paying $45k for the
entire weekend photography in France." Comparison to Other Luxury Photographers: Other photographers in a similar luxury bracket, such as Joel and Justyna, also command prices in
the $30,000-$40,000 range. "Joel & Justyna are in the $30-40k range - their core focus is luxury editorial wedding photography and they just seemed so much more unique than every
other team I met with." Factors Influencing High Costs Brand Recognition and Demand: A significant portion of the cost is attributed to their established reputation and high demand
in the industry. "You pay chiefly for the name." Experience and Expertise: Norman and Blake are recognized as experienced professionals who produce high-quality work. "Norman &
Blake (amazing photos, a bit trendier)" Comprehensive Services: High-end packages often include services beyond just photography, such as multiple photographers, assistants, and
coverage of various events throughout a wedding weekend. "For the big name photographers, that is absolutely the correct range. They usually include multi days/full weekends in
that (welcome party, rehearsal dinner, after wedding brunch, etc.)." Alternatives and Considerations Similar Style, Lower Price: Many couples seek photographers with a similar
aesthetic to Norman and Blake but at a lower price point, often finding excellent options in the $10,000-$30,000 range. "You definitely can get an amazing photog in the $10-30k
range." Focus on Portfolio and Fit: Regardless of price, it's crucial to review a photographer's full portfolio and ensure their style aligns with your preferences. "The important
thing is to PRACTICE." Are you interested in exploring photographers with a similar style to Norman and Blake at a different price point? See Answer Pricing for John Cain
photography Latest work from Norman and Blake photography Weddings by Nato photography reviews Unique wedding themes for high-budget couples More posts you may like Anyone
disappointed with their wedding photos? r/BigBudgetBrides • 9mo ago Anyone disappointed with their wedding photos? 35 upvotes · 54 comments u/aaa_ace avatar aaa_ace • Promoted Your
car matters to you. Your coverage does, too. AAA auto insurance offers trustworthy protection so you can stress less and drive with confidence. Thumbnail image: Your car matters to
you. Your coverage does, too. AAA auto insurance offers trustworthy protection so you can stress less and drive with confidence. ace.aaa.com Learn More Looking for editorial /
documentary wedding photographer r/WedditNYC • 12d ago Looking for editorial / documentary wedding photographer 3 upvotes · 46 comments Choosing a Photographer, help!!
r/BigBudgetBrides • 14d ago Choosing a Photographer, help!! 8 upvotes · 25 comments I'm terrified of ruining my dream wedding with the wrong photographer - what should I be worried
about? r/BigBudgetBrides • 10mo ago I'm terrified of ruining my dream wedding with the wrong photographer - what should I be worried about? 27 upvotes · 44 comments OC brides -
wedding photographer r/BigBudgetBrides • 5mo ago OC brides - wedding photographer 42 upvotes · 23 comments Advice for NOT doing a wedding website? r/BigBudgetBrides • 2mo ago
Advice for NOT doing a wedding website? 12 upvotes · 61 comments What are some fun, unique, or thoughtful touches you’ve seen at past weddings? r/BigBudgetBrides • 21d ago What are
some fun, unique, or thoughtful touches you’ve seen at past weddings? 22 upvotes · 32 comments Luxury micro wedding / retreat r/BigBudgetBrides • 4mo ago Luxury micro wedding /
retreat 8 upvotes · 20 comments Wedding photographer help!! r/WedditNYC • 6d ago Wedding photographer help!! 11 upvotes · 20 comments Help finding a photographer! r/BigBudgetBrides
• 7mo ago Help finding a photographer! r/BigBudgetBrides - Help finding a photographer! 8 32 upvotes · 38 comments Wedding website options r/BigBudgetBrides • 5mo ago Wedding
website options 8 upvotes · 29 comments Looking for a non-instagramy wedding planner r/BigBudgetBrides • 3mo ago Looking for a non-instagramy wedding planner 19 upvotes · 21
comments Discussion: What are some of the things you wish wedding vendors knew? r/BigBudgetBrides • 4mo ago Discussion: What are some of the things you wish wedding vendors knew?
72 upvotes · 31 comments Wedding Photographer Search r/WedditNYC • 9d ago Wedding Photographer Search 5 upvotes · 63 comments Bridal boudoir shoot r/BigBudgetBrides • 2mo ago
Bridal boudoir shoot 6 upvotes · 19 comments Q series Wedding Photographers r/Leica • 2y ago Q series Wedding Photographers 5 upvotes · 4 comments Recent wedding grad, here are
some thoughts! r/BigBudgetBrides • 7mo ago Recent wedding grad, here are some thoughts! r/BigBudgetBrides - Recent wedding grad, here are some thoughts! 13 374 upvotes · 40
comments Film Wedding Photographer r/WedditNYC • 2y ago Film Wedding Photographer 7 upvotes · 18 comments Film/documentary wedding photographers? r/WedditNYC • 1mo ago
Film/documentary wedding photographers? r/WedditNYC - Film/documentary wedding photographers? 38 upvotes · 64 comments Wedding photographer r/WedditNYC • 6mo ago Wedding
photographer r/WedditNYC - Wedding photographer 10 152 upvotes · 88 comments Luxury European Wedding r/BigBudgetBrides • 6mo ago Luxury European Wedding 9 upvotes · 21 comments
Wedding Venue Advice r/BigBudgetBrides • 22d ago Wedding Venue Advice 3 upvotes · 7 comments Luxury Wedding Content Creator r/BigBudgetBrides • 2y ago Luxury Wedding Content
Creator 3 upvotes · 7 comments Does anyone else feel like their wedding is a sore spot to look back on? r/BigBudgetBrides • 6mo ago Does anyone else feel like their wedding is a
sore spot to look back on? 74 upvotes · 39 comments Micro Wedding Photographer r/Naples_FL • 2y ago Micro Wedding Photographer 3 upvotes · 12 comments View Post in Français
Português (Brasil) See more Community Info Section r/BigBudgetBrides Join BigBudgetBrides This is a community for brides, grooms, or anyone getting married with big wedding budgets
to ask questions, get tips, and get support from other engaged or graduated couples! Big Budget Brides (BBB) was created by and for big-budget brides. Its primary purpose is peer
support, pattern-sharing, and lived-experience insight among brides navigating complex, high-stakes weddings. This is not a professional advisory forum, marketplace, or consulting
space. Show more Public Top Posts Reddit reReddit: Top posts of March 27, 2024 Reddit reReddit: Top posts of March 2024 Reddit reReddit: Top posts of 2024 Reddit Rules Privacy
Policy User Agreement Your Privacy Choices Accessibility Reddit, Inc. © 2026. All rights reserved. Collapse Navigation Skip to main content How do you get into the luxury/ultra
high-end/ destination space? : r/WeddingPhotography r/WeddingPhotography Search in r/WeddingPhotography Get App Log In Expand user menu Skip to NavigationSkip to Right Sidebar Back
Go to WeddingPhotography r/WeddingPhotography • 2y ago lsal1 How do you get into the luxury/ultra high-end/ destination space? I’m a wedding photographer based in Chicago, and
would one day love to get into the destination and luxury/elite wedding space. Currently my wedding clientele are young couples/young professionals. Am trying to move away from
recent college grads getting married to young professionals and then one day move to destinations/high-end weddings. I know that my own client experience would need to
change/improve, grow my instagram (currently around 1k followers) and I would need to gain experience continually shooting higher and higher end clientele. I also know that you
need to post what you want to shoot, but how do that if you aren’t getting the work you necessarily want to post? Any tips for anyone who want to break into that space or start
getting into higher-end clients? I know that getting into this space can help by having a relationship with a higher end planner, but its hard to connect with the planners you
haven’t worked with as well as if you don’t have any work that is similar to theirs? Upvote 19 Downvote 31 Go to comments Share Join the conversation Sort by: Best Search Comments
Expand comment search Comments Section u/cchrishh avatar cchrishh • 2y ago Buy my course for $2,999. Just kidding. The real answer is to grow in your skill, connect with planners
just out of your current scope, shoot weddings a little out of your league and then just keep doing that over and over until one day you’re shooting luxury events beyond your
original social circle. Biggest mistake I see people making with this goal in mind is sharing work that is counter-intuitive to their goal of shooting high-end weddings. DIY
flowers, out-of-style dresses etc etc. Shooting luxury events isn’t all it’s cracked up to be, but if that’s your goal you need to position yourself so that when a luxury
couple/planner sees your work they can identify with it and picture themselves as one of your couples. If you’re sharing work that is obviously low budget you won’t attract people
looking to invest in high budget photographers. It’s not a fun game to play but that’s how it’s worked in my experience. gabemcmullen • 2y ago Like u/cchrishh said, the best thing
you can do is start working with higher end planners. I imagine it’s tough to get in there with little experience shooting high end weddings. How long have you been photographing
for? While I generally don’t recommend styled shoots for people that have been shooting for less than 3 years - a higher end styled shoot could help build that portfolio a little
bit. Attempting to partner with a higher end planner would be a great starting point. u/mirr0rrim avatar mirr0rrim • 2y ago • Edited 2y ago You gotta embody high end, even if you
are not. Do not show anything in your portfolio that doesn't fit. Hopefully you are already following high end photographers to guide and inspire you in the look you want to
achieve. Styled shoots are the quickest and easiest way to get portfolio images. Just don't misrepresent your experience to inquiries. Figure out what high end venues you want to
work at and follow them. Try to do shoots at them, either styled or engagement sessions, so you can tag them later. This is a major way couples find photographers. Make friends
with planners! Attend networking events. Share your photos with vendors you like, for free. Their word of mouth referrals will get you far. Don't post too much casual "day in my
life" IG stories. Try to appear well dressed in a well styled room the majority of the time. Hire a photographer to take your bio photo and for various marketing. Rent clothing or
buy a sharp outfit. Get your editing on point. You will find quickly there is a certain look to high end photography. Come prepared with items that will set you apart on a wedding
day, like styling boards and ring boxes. Sewing kit, Bobby pins, boob tape, etc. Dress well. I'm not talking wear a suit or high heels, but better than average. I like Athleta for
formal but breathable work outfits. u/splitmelikeacoconut avatar splitmelikeacoconut • 2y ago people charge thousands for this advice! u/guillaume_rx avatar guillaume_rx • 2y ago •
Edited 2y ago Another tip/personnal experience with wearing suits when you shoot: I don’t shoot high-end wedding and I still wear a tailor made suit from Milan every wedding, and
my brides often thank me for that. Ok, it’s not the most comfortable thing in the world (although a well fitted suit should be comfortable still), but: 1/ I don’t waste the guests’
photos when I’m in the frame. 2/ And I fit in, I “blend in”. It breaks the staff/guest barrier, which brings you closer to the people, the action, the trust, the genuine moments.
But I’m super extroverted and very interactive, so I like talking and bonding with the guest to get my photographs. Worth it even for semi-high-end weddings imho. (Bourgeois, not
multi-millionaires). I wear fancy black chelsea boots instead of more formal shoes (they look great and chic, yet cool, original, “artsy”, not too formal-“uniformesque”) and a high
collar with no tie on my white shirt instead of a classic collar, which helps make it slightly more relaxed and less overdressed. Pocket square, colorful plain socks to make it
playful, not over doing it with accessories. Basically, I look like a million dollar and the guy that knows how to dress/can afford to break the formal rules and still look good,
without being the guy that tries too hard to be overdressed compared to to the guests/couple. From my own experience, it’s 200% worth it. I just ask the couple about their dress
code and tell them about it and why I normally do this (like I just did above without the part about the “looking like a million dollar” because if you’re not anonymous, this
definitely would be perceived as bragging and inelegant by a lot of people). So i make sure I fit and am not over or under dressed. But I certainly look better dressed than most
Wedding Photographers because they want to be comfy or are not very interested in sartorial fashion (and that’s legitimate) and guests/couples regularly tell me I look great.
u/aberrant_orchid avatar aberrant_orchid • 2y ago When you say, “you’ll find quickly there’s a certain look to high end photography” I think about some of the shots I see on Vogue
Weddings and can’t help but think, if that’s what high end wedding photography looks like, I want nothing to do with it. But maybe I’m not looking at the right accounts…
u/mirr0rrim avatar mirr0rrim • 2y ago I should add "and style" to the photos. The simple posing (or none at all) is a Thing right now and I get it, but also in the world of high
end, my snarky take is that's way too easy (and boring). Of course if your couple look like models, in $30,000 outfits, at a million dollar venue, in front of $$$$ flowers,
everything is impressive no matter what. In regards to editing, yeah it's a bummer that true color edits with a little dof is not as appreciated. I know there are amazing high end
photographers who do that, but they are comparatively rare. 1 more reply calico15 • 2y ago I'm curious about the not posting casual stuff on stories. Is this like not to cheapen
the brand by showing yourself is sweatpants or in a dark ugly room etc? u/mirr0rrim avatar mirr0rrim • 2y ago • Edited 2y ago Yeah pretty much. If this is your first impression for
someone, do you think they will look past your stained old couch when you want to charge them $10 grand? It's a fine line. If you're witty, funny, interesting, a good storyteller,
etc you can get away with doing casual posts more. Offer something of value. If that's not you, casual posts like "hey guys I just rolled out of bed, look at my dog sleeping,
anyway today I'm editing!" are fine, but I'd severely limit them. Better yet, make it seem fancy. Show yourself in your pj's, but tell them you're just so excited to start editing
this morning, here I'll share a few pics of what I'm working on..." 1 more reply 1 more reply u/splitmelikeacoconut avatar splitmelikeacoconut • 2y ago i'm less curious to know how
people broke into the high end space and more curious to know what their socio economic background is. do most high end photographers already come from money? u/evanrphoto avatar
evanrphoto • 2y ago • Edited 2y ago It depends what you mean by “come from money.” It varies, but none that I am aware of come from the same socioeconomic class as the higher end
weddings. But I would say that there is a correlations and successful higher end photographers that I know come from higher socioeconomic classes on average than those outside on
average. Which is close to a question I like to talk to other photographers about “are you your own target client and are you your own ideal photographer?” For some reason “luxury”
is a thing right now so I see more people answering my question as “no” right now. But prior to 4 years ago it was usually “yes”. u/splitmelikeacoconut avatar splitmelikeacoconut •
2y ago makes sense, most couples hire someone who they are comfortable around and people are comfortable around others who seem more like themselves. as a fun thought experiment, i
always wonder how some of these photographers would do shooting a lower budget wedding. 1 more reply u/stockadobe avatar u/stockadobe • Promoted Match Adobe Stock footage to any
project in seconds. Learn More stock.adobe.com Thumbnail image: Match Adobe Stock footage to any project in seconds. avameow • 2y ago Another often overlooked part of being
“luxury” is the client experience. For example, you need to have fast responses. Waiting 48 hours to reply to an inquiry at the $15k+ mark won’t cut it. You’ll also want to
consider faster turnarounds. In the $500,000+ wedding mark they are expecting faster turnaround on edits. In the million + mark they will often have a PR feature booked prior to
the event, so you’ll need to turn around a gallery within a week. Having planner relationships is also key - network! Join WIPA ILEA NACE or other local vendor groups. Attend
conferences like Emerge & Be Sage. slightlysarcastic75 • 2y ago I’ve come to find you really just have to be able to check all of the boxes. Excellent photography is a given.
Networking with planners that are planning the events you want to shoot is a must. Constantly working the DMs and instagram comments to build those relationships when you’re not in
the same room. Getting published in high end publications is a plus. Must have an excellent website, brand, and personal image. Can’t really have any skeletons in the closet or
controversial opinions (those WILL come out eventually, and the luxury wedding space is one that will cancel you for it). Aaaaall of that, and it’s still kind of a crapshoot. Those
there now were shooting weddings when they were 17, and got in before the “boom”. They’ve been building necessary relationships for years, and once those working relationships
between photo/planners are built they rarely deviate into someone new. You gotta be excellent at all times and get extremely lucky as well. X4dow • 2y ago Almost everyone claiming
to be a "destination photographer" is simply a workshop/course seller. They travel country to country on the back of winning some award/having shot some celeb wedding, pay a couple
of models when they go to paris, to get perfect shots, pay a couple of models in the US and take them to grand canyon and so on, and their lives is simply pretending to be a
"destination photographer" but in reality their job is filling up a room with 30-40 losers paying 300-400 bucks each for a "how to be a destination photographer" workshop on every
country they visit. Then theres those who throw themselves for free to do their mates elopement wedding, or book their holidays around shooting someone's wedding abroad for cheap,
just for brags. u/splitmelikeacoconut avatar splitmelikeacoconut • 2y ago is this really true? i couldn't imagine spending so much money and time to keep up appearances. surely
there is a payoff at the end? u/evanrphoto avatar evanrphoto • 2y ago There are plenty out there who genuinely shoot every weekend in a different place but it’s not what most
people think it’s like. But a lot of those out there selling courses and such don’t have a career the way they portray it. 1 more reply u/Aeri73 avatar Aeri73 • 2y ago for only 499
you can follow my online training course to learn the secret of how I got this successfull... and the best ones fake it and make it, but best is more best in business and
networking, not that much the photography Chocagi • 2y ago Haha hey, marketing is marketing. Let’s call it what is is. u/MB2_Dental avatar u/MB2_Dental • Promoted Put your
