Should i start using post processing? 8 172 upvotes · 87 comments What are your recommendations for editing pictures? r/AskPhotography • 5d ago What are your recommendations for
editing pictures? r/AskPhotography - What are your recommendations for editing pictures? 4 4 upvotes · 14 comments Is there any other way I can handle these harsh highlights when
editing? r/AskPhotography • 12d ago Is there any other way I can handle these harsh highlights when editing? r/AskPhotography - Is there any other way I can handle these harsh
highlights when editing? 2 74 upvotes · 54 comments I’m struggling to price my photography without ripping people off or myself — thoughts? r/AskPhotography • 4mo ago I’m
struggling to price my photography without ripping people off or myself — thoughts? r/AskPhotography - I’m struggling to price my photography without ripping people off or myself —
thoughts? 5 56 upvotes · 80 comments How do I get my photos to look better on Reddit? r/AskPhotography • 7mo ago How do I get my photos to look better on Reddit? r/AskPhotography -
How do I get my photos to look better on Reddit? 9 upvotes · 13 comments I switched from JPG to RAW and now I'm having trouble editing the photos. Am I doing it right?
r/AskPhotography • 4mo ago I switched from JPG to RAW and now I'm having trouble editing the photos. Am I doing it right? r/AskPhotography - I switched from JPG to RAW and now I'm
having trouble editing the photos. Am I doing it right? 2 51 upvotes · 31 comments How do I get comfortable charging people for photos? r/AskPhotography • 1mo ago How do I get
comfortable charging people for photos? 1 upvote · 24 comments Photo I assignment? r/AskPhotography • 3mo ago Photo I assignment? r/AskPhotography - Photo I assignment? 3 78
upvotes · 16 comments Do you care about the quality of your Compendium pics, or no? r/tearsofthekingdom • 3y ago Do you care about the quality of your Compendium pics, or no? 10
upvotes · 49 comments i'm not sure if this is good for 34$... the seller's minimum buy is 33 and they don't have any sets besides polybags. should i go through with it or nah?
r/lego • 3y ago i'm not sure if this is good for 34$... the seller's minimum buy is 33 and they don't have any sets besides polybags. should i go through with it or nah? r/lego -
i'm not sure if this is good for 34$... the seller's minimum buy is 33 and they don't have any sets besides polybags. should i go through with it or nah? 8 2 comments They’re fine,
but how to make my portraits look professional? r/AskPhotography • 8mo ago They’re fine, but how to make my portraits look professional? r/AskPhotography - They’re fine, but how to
make my portraits look professional? 4 349 upvotes · 166 comments What is this harsh vertical line in my photos? r/AskPhotography • 14d ago What is this harsh vertical line in my
photos? r/AskPhotography - What is this harsh vertical line in my photos? 3 29 upvotes · 33 comments Is anyone else frustrated with the current state of photography online?
r/AskPhotography • 11d ago Is anyone else frustrated with the current state of photography online? 88 upvotes · 58 comments What (other) photographers would you recommend for
someone who enjoyed reviewing these pictures for inspiration? r/AskPhotography • 3mo ago What (other) photographers would you recommend for someone who enjoyed reviewing these
pictures for inspiration? r/AskPhotography - What (other) photographers would you recommend for someone who enjoyed reviewing these pictures for inspiration? 10 50 upvotes · 23
comments Client requested ownership of photos. I’m confused. What would you do? r/AskPhotography • 9mo ago Client requested ownership of photos. I’m confused. What would you do? 67
upvotes · 68 comments Is there a platform or community where i can get feedback on photos? r/AskPhotography • 3mo ago Is there a platform or community where i can get feedback on
photos? 4 upvotes · 26 comments Ordered a new kettle on Amazon and someone switched their old, crusty kettle for the new one. r/mildlyinfuriating • 3y ago Ordered a new kettle on
Amazon and someone switched their old, crusty kettle for the new one. r/mildlyinfuriating - Ordered a new kettle on Amazon and someone switched their old, crusty kettle for the new
one. 1.1K upvotes · 73 comments Is this too good to be true? r/IsMyPokemonCardFake • 3y ago Is this too good to be true? r/IsMyPokemonCardFake - Is this too good to be true? 6 29
upvotes · 22 comments View Post in Русский 日本語 हिन्दी See more Community Info Section r/AskPhotography Join Photography community ready to help. Whether you're a seasoned
professional or just starting out, this subreddit is the perfect place to ask questions, seek advice, and engage in discussions about all things photography. We're here to foster a
supportive and knowledgeable community that shares a passion for capturing the world through the lens. If you're new to photography or have a burning question, don't hesitate to
make a post! Our community is filled with experienced photographers who are eager to help. Show more Public Top Posts Reddit reReddit: Top posts of August 17, 2023 Reddit reReddit:
Top posts of August 2023 Reddit reReddit: Top posts of 2023 Reddit Rules Privacy Policy User Agreement Your Privacy Choices Accessibility Reddit, Inc. © 2026. All rights reserved.
Collapse Navigation Skip to main content How do you convince a client they need a professional photographer instead of them just using iPhone pictures for their business? :
r/photography r/photography Search in r/photography Get App Log In Expand user menu Skip to NavigationSkip to Right Sidebar Back Go to photography r/photography • 7y ago [deleted]
How do you convince a client they need a professional photographer instead of them just using iPhone pictures for their business? I think we can all admit that the newest phones
(Pixel, iPhone XR, etc) have insane photo quality. And a lot of people in the restaurant business, small business owners, etc sometimes don’t see the value in paying a photographer
when what they see is high quality photos coming from their phones? I think this is an important topic for new photographers trying to get business. Archived post. New comments
cannot be posted and votes cannot be cast. Upvote 13 Downvote 22 Go to comments Share u/OpenAI avatar OpenAI • Promoted Ready to move from mockup to code? Start now with Codex,
available with ChatGPT. Sign Up chatgpt.com Thumbnail image: Ready to move from mockup to code? Start now with Codex, available with ChatGPT. Sort by: Best Comments Section
geekandwife • 7y ago I don't go after business owners that a cell phone picture is good enough for their needs. Even if I was able to convince them to spend money, if the free cell
phone shot is good enough, then its good enough, and they will not want to pay normal rates for shoots. For many people, good enough is good enough, and if that is good enough,
they don't need me. To be successful in business, you need to learn not everyone is your client, there are some people that you just don't want or need as a client, either due to
budget or expectations. I would rather spend my time going after clients that I can profit off of. u/GullibleInstruction avatar GullibleInstruction • 7y ago This is the perfect
response to this. Whether you are a technician or an artist, what you offer to any potential client is a product BEYOND what they can create themselves. u/fieryuser avatar
fieryuser • 7y ago They aren't (or at least shouldn't be) the clientele you're interested in. u/evanrphoto avatar evanrphoto • 7y ago You don't, profitably or effectively at least.
[deleted] • 7y ago You don't. A client that needs to be convinced about the service you offer is most likely just a future headache you create for yourself. u/jen_photographs
avatar jen_photographs • 7y ago Highlight skill/experience instead of equipment. As others have said, if business owners are trying to DIY, they likely don't have the budget to
hire, and aren't good leads to pursue. Chamenos_ • 7y ago Reading a lot of comments that suggest that people who lack the understanding of the value of something are not clients.
99% of sales role are people who are trained to facilitate the education of clients on the gap between what a client wants and what they currently have. Whether it makes you happy
or not, as a photographer you are also a salesperson. Your ability to educate and shift the minds of clients can be what separates you from other photographers in the market. NO I
am not suggesting you treat every client as a mountain to be conquered like a used car salesmen, but writing off clients because they dont fit an immediate set of criteria will
only hurt your business long term. u/Zola avatar u/Zola • Promoted These tried, true, and top of-the-crop registry picks prove their staying power. Find all your favorites at
Zola.com. These tried, true, and top of-the-crop registry picks prove their staying power. Find all your favorites at Zola.com. These tried, true, and top of-the-crop registry
picks prove their staying power. Find all your favorites at Zola.com. These tried, true, and top of-the-crop registry picks prove their staying power. Find all your favorites at
Zola.com. welcome.zola.com Sign Up u/wickeddimension avatar wickeddimension • 7y ago I'd say its not the camera. A good photographer can take the iPhone and produce better picture
than the owner. You pay for skill and experience, not so much gear. That said if they see no value in that they arent your client. No point convincing a cheapskate to pay for a
service they dont believe in. Its asking for trouble strouze • 7y ago A friend of me is a web-designer. A client of his wanted a homepage for a catering service. He received some
pictures dslr and some iPhone pictures. the only usable ones were taken by an iPhone. The biggest feature of an modern smartphone is its processing and intuitive controls. It's
hard to take a bad picture with a modern phone. laurentbourrelly • 7y ago Find a competitor who uses good images. Stilgaar • 7y ago Interessted in the comments. By the way, Gear :
I have speedlights, lightstands and softboxes. Know how to use it. There are things you can't do with an Iphone. Quality : If people dont understand the difference of quality
between an iphone and a DLSR its difficult to argue Post : I post-prod all of my pics since I shoot in raw, no-presets. Its part of the work and its a plus value in our work
[deleted] • 7y ago I'm not a photo genius by any means, but I create good images of lots of different subjects. The thing that people can NOT reproduce on their phones, is my
lighting. They really don't have the understanding of how light affects the image. They'll have some nice shots from their phone, and it's like, "Yes...that is a very nice shot..."
But if you add some lighting the the photo, you can elevate the shot quite a bit, no matter what camera is used. noappendix • 7y ago It sort of depends on what kind of photography
they need I suppose. I know plenty of photographers who are able to take good shots with their smartphones if there is good enough light and surroundings. I_Love_BB8 • 7y ago Take
a picture of the same thing but with the camera and the iPhone then show them the results. DarkColdFusion • 7y ago That's not a terrible idea to maybe have as a marketing bit on a
website. Some examples of the same setup done with a phone and your professional equipment. So they can see some A|B compares so even if they might not understand why, they might
be able to sell themselves on wanting professional images. u/ExcelsiorUniversity avatar u/ExcelsiorUniversity • Promoted The best part about working in health care is that wherever
you want to go, you’ll always be needed. When you earn your AS in Health Sciences online at Excelsior University, you’re opening doors to career opportunities that grow with you
and go with you, wherever you want! Learn More explore.excelsior.edu Thumbnail image: The best part about working in health care is that wherever you want to go, you’ll always be
needed. When you earn your AS in Health Sciences online at Excelsior University, you’re opening doors to career opportunities that grow with you and go with you, wherever you want!
u/xtivhpbpj avatar xtivhpbpj • 7y ago A classic way to convince people of things is to provide them with data. Do you have any data to back up the claim that professional photos
will add value for them? Leighgion • 7y ago Granting the limited value of my opinion since I don’t try to convince people to pay for my for photography at all, but it seems like an
error to compare a professional photographer with hardware, phone or otherwise. Shouldn’t you be selling the idea that YOU are valuable, not your gear? PopDaddyGames • 7y ago IMO:
You don't. Tell them to analyze their competition and come to their own conclusions. You can't make the horse drink. u/fotoeye avatar fotoeye • 7y ago Who cares if it was shot on a
phone or a $50,000 Hasselblad ... What is the final result? Can a phone "successfully" be used for a restaurants entire photography needs? Yes. Next question, Can the restaurant
owner, manager or waitress "successfully" do this by themselves? That's what you're selling to them. You need to show them why .... this is what your photos look like right now and
this is what I can give you ... see the differences ... the lighting here .. the composition here ... you get the idea. LeicaM6guy • 7y ago I think we can all admit that the newest
phones (Pixel, iPhone XR, etc) have insane photo quality. I'll admit, I don't agree with this at all. New phones have impressive cameras compared to other phones. Compared to even
older DSLR's, they will struggle to shoot in all but the most perfect of situations. If you have a client who thinks that a phone is going to work, they're probably not the sort
who's going to pay very well anyways. Your best bet is to show them a solid portfolio and provide a clear list of the work you can do for them, and if they're not swayed by that
they probably weren't going to hire you to begin with. [deleted] • 7y ago u/abbazabasback avatar abbazabasback • 7y ago You can’t. Stop wasting time with shitty “clients”. New to
Reddit? Create your account and connect with a world of communities. Continue With Phone Number By continuing, you agree to our User Agreement and acknowledge that you understand
the Privacy Policy. Related Answers Section Related Answers Best lenses for portrait photography Choosing the best lens for portrait photography depends on your camera system,
desired aesthetic, and budget, with Redditors frequently recommending 85mm, 50mm, and 70-200mm f/2.8 lenses for their versatility and ability to produce flattering results. Popular
Focal Lengths for Portraits 85mm lenses are widely considered ideal for traditional portraits due to their flattering compression and ability to create beautiful background blur.
"85mm to me is the ideal portrait length." 50mm lenses are praised for their versatility, offering a natural perspective that closely matches human vision and performing well for
both headshots and wider environmental portraits. "My favorite portrait length for most of my work, but I like shooting a lot looser… full body, or horizontal frame waist up."
70-200mm f/2.8 zoom lenses are a highly recommended workhorse, providing excellent versatility for various portrait distances and offering impressive background separation. "To be
honest, and I know it is heavy: the 70-200mm f/2.8 with stabilizing. Versatile, great bokeh, great background separation. Absolutely stunning." Key Considerations for Lens
Selection Aperture Size (f-stop): A wide aperture (e.g., f/1.2, f/1.4, f/1.8, f/2.8) is crucial for achieving the sought-after bokeh effect, blurring the background to make the
subject stand out. "If you want bokeh, you'll need the aperture of f1.4 / 1.8." Prime vs. Zoom Lenses: Prime lenses (fixed focal length) often offer superior image quality and
wider apertures at a lower cost, while zoom lenses provide flexibility in framing without changing lenses. "Prime with low aperture. 35mm or 50mm usually, I prefer shorter focal
lengths" Sensor Size: The camera's sensor size impacts the effective focal length and depth of field. "To talk about a focal length without mentioning the sensor size is
misleading." Advanced and Specialty Lenses 105mm and 135mm lenses are also popular choices for portraits, especially for tighter headshots, offering distinct compression and bokeh
characteristics. "85mm, 105mm, 135mm and 200mm would be most used portrait lens." Sigma and Viltrox produce well-regarded and often more affordable prime lenses that deliver
excellent image quality for portraiture. "The Sigma 56mm f/1.4 is a great portrait lens." Are you looking for lens recommendations for a specific camera brand or type? See Answer
Tips for capturing stunning landscapes How to improve low-light photography skills Essential gear for travel photographers Creative ways to use natural light More posts you may
like Client citing themselves as photographer in post instead of the actual photographer r/photography • 2mo ago Client citing themselves as photographer in post instead of the
actual photographer 78 upvotes · 50 comments u/shopify avatar shopify • Promoted Have great products but nowhere to sell them? Get everything you need to start your online business
in one place. Thumbnail image: Have great products but nowhere to sell them? Get everything you need to start your online business in one place. shopify.com Sign Up paid
photographer $10k and got obviously AI edited photos, reasonable to be mad? r/photography • 2mo ago paid photographer $10k and got obviously AI edited photos, reasonable to be mad?
636 upvotes · 452 comments Photographers that don't use social media, what do you do with your photos? r/photography • 4mo ago Photographers that don't use social media, what do
you do with your photos? 236 upvotes · 201 comments Need advice re: professional photos r/photography • 2mo ago Need advice re: professional photos 24 upvotes · 80 comments When a
Publisher Requests Usage of Your Client Work - Here’s the Professional Process Every Photographer Should Follow. r/photography • 5mo ago When a Publisher Requests Usage of Your
Client Work - Here’s the Professional Process Every Photographer Should Follow. 162 upvotes · 44 comments Client asking for ALL photos r/photography • 5mo ago Client asking for ALL
photos 201 upvotes · 253 comments What parts of being a professional photographer isn’t talked about enough? r/photography • 1mo ago What parts of being a professional photographer
isn’t talked about enough? 82 upvotes · 145 comments I'm a new photographer and need advice on marketing r/photography • 7mo ago I'm a new photographer and need advice on marketing
2 upvotes · 16 comments Delivering Photos To Client r/photography • 1y ago Delivering Photos To Client 13 upvotes · 49 comments Is hiring a professional corporate photographer
actually worth the cost for a small business? r/photography • 2mo ago Is hiring a professional corporate photographer actually worth the cost for a small business? 25 upvotes · 62
comments Instagram went after my photography business page r/photography • 4mo ago Instagram went after my photography business page 179 upvotes · 88 comments Practice photography
as an art. Don't worry about becoming a business. r/photography • 9mo ago Practice photography as an art. Don't worry about becoming a business. 504 upvotes · 188 comments Client
wants me to share all my photos after I delivered what was stipulated. r/photography • 19d ago Client wants me to share all my photos after I delivered what was stipulated. 83
upvotes · 286 comments tips on how to promote my photography business? r/photography • 10mo ago tips on how to promote my photography business? 4 upvotes · 15 comments How do you
deliver photos to a client r/photography • 10mo ago How do you deliver photos to a client 13 upvotes · 52 comments How many photos do you usually give to your clients? Is 300
photos enough? r/photography • 1y ago How many photos do you usually give to your clients? Is 300 photos enough? 54 upvotes · 133 comments "If you edit your photos you're a bad
photographer" r/photography • 4mo ago "If you edit your photos you're a bad photographer" 513 upvotes · 417 comments I need some advice to look good in photos r/photography • 2mo
ago I need some advice to look good in photos 11 upvotes · 19 comments Give credit to the photographer on all posted pictures? r/photography • 6mo ago Give credit to the
photographer on all posted pictures? 117 upvotes · 78 comments best way to deliver photos to "clients"? r/photography • 8mo ago best way to deliver photos to "clients"? 9 upvotes ·
55 comments Male photographers taking photos of your gf/wife/partners how do you do it? r/photography • 1mo ago Male photographers taking photos of your gf/wife/partners how do you
do it? 21 comments What would like to get as a gift as a photographer r/photography • 2mo ago What would like to get as a gift as a photographer 10 upvotes · 77 comments Selling
photography r/photography • 3mo ago Selling photography 20 comments How many photos do you usually send to a client for photographing an event? r/photography • 10mo ago How many
photos do you usually send to a client for photographing an event? 44 upvotes · 44 comments Should I give my clients the option to choose their photos? r/photography • 8mo ago
Should I give my clients the option to choose their photos? 5 upvotes · 27 comments View Post in 日本語 Tiếng Việt Français हिन्दी Português (Brasil) See more Community Info Section
r/photography Join Photography /r/photography is a place to politely discuss the tools, technique, art and culture of photography and to post topics that would be of interest to
other photographers. Show more Public Top Posts Reddit reReddit: Top posts of January 16, 2019 Reddit reReddit: Top posts of January 2019 Reddit reReddit: Top posts of 2019 Reddit
Rules Privacy Policy User Agreement Your Privacy Choices Accessibility Reddit, Inc. © 2026. All rights reserved. Collapse Navigation Skip to main content I studied 60+ consumer
behaviors. Here are top 5 buyer psychology lessons that actually make people buy : r/HowToEntrepreneur r/HowToEntrepreneur Search in r/HowToEntrepreneur Get App Log In Expand user
menu Skip to NavigationSkip to Right Sidebar Back Go to HowToEntrepreneur r/HowToEntrepreneur • 8mo ago Flashy_Point_210 I studied 60+ consumer behaviors. Here are top 5 buyer
psychology lessons that actually make people buy #1 Foot In The Door Technique Make small requests and offers to get them to commit to a small action like giving your credit card
Action: Create a free trial or discounted offer to get a small buy Why it works: Gets customer to make a small commitment that leads to bigger ones Makes repeat buying easy Pro
Tip: Ask “do you want to use the same credit card that’s on file” for future purchases to make buying smoother. #2 Anchoring Have an anchor price point to make your other items
seem like a better deal. Action: Make the product you want to sell more seem cheaper by anchoring it to a less valuable product. Why it works: A high anchor makes our other offers
seem cheaper We think in relative so giving offers side by side helps us understand what is more valuable Pro Tip: Create an expensive product and offer it first. This sets a good
anchor and gets more money from a few customers. #3 Goal Gradient Effect The closer we are to achieving something, the more motivated we are to act. By seeing our progress our
motivation increases to act faster. Action: Show their progress and how close they are to getting a bonus. Ex. $25.00 away from free shipping or 6/10 bobas (4 more) until you get a
free drink. Why it works: Gives a reason for them to buy more Creates loss aversion by wasting money if they don't buy more Pro Tip: Show progress they have made and the little
amount more they have to get the bonus or discount. #4 Scarcity + Urgency Scarcity and Urgency create FOMO. Tell your customers the lack of supply and time so they buy now. Action:
Tell your customers how many items you have left in stock and to buy before you run out. Why it works: Focuses on your customers emotions Gives an illusion of being more valuable.
Pro Tip: Be specific like "there's only 3 spots left" and "offer ends in 24 hours." #5 Authority Bias Authority bias is when people give trust and are more persuadable to authority
figures like experts or influencers. Action: Partner with influencers or business in your market for testimonials or collaborations. Why it works: We trust and give credibility to
positions of authority We copy who influencers trust and buy from Pro Tip: Build relationships with micro-influencers in your niche Closing Thoughts These lessons are backed by my
experience on what gets people to buy and psychology behind consumer behavior. Apply them ethically to our business and your business will seem more trustworthy and you will get
more people to buy. If you liked this post, check out my free newsletter, Business Deconstructed for more actionable advice like this on marketing and business strategy. Upvote 114
Downvote 9 Go to comments Share u/AxonbyAppLovin avatar AxonbyAppLovin • Promoted Profitable advertising made simple Learn More axon.ai Clickable image which will reveal the video
player: Profitable advertising made simple Collapse video player 0:00 / 0:00 Join the conversation Sort by: Best Search Comments Expand comment search Comments Section u/jimmytu0
avatar jimmytu0 • 7mo ago Great thoughts, thanks for sharing! Flashy_Point_210 OP • 7mo ago No problem, glad you liked the advice1 u/TunbridgeWellsGirl avatar TunbridgeWellsGirl •
8mo ago The Why We Buy Newsletter by Katelyn Bourgoin is brilliant and my Get Sh*t Done Newsletter for solopreneurs (also on beehiiv) is about copywriting, buyer psychology, email
marketing and productivity. If you run a business you need to understand why people buy and how to use psychological triggers in your copy. TalhaTariq-tt • 8mo ago How can i
subscribe to these newsletters? u/TunbridgeWellsGirl avatar TunbridgeWellsGirl • 8mo ago Here's the link to Why We Buy Newsletter https://learnwhywebuy.com/ u/TunbridgeWellsGirl
avatar TunbridgeWellsGirl • 8mo ago Here's the link to Get Sh*t Done Newsletter https://getshitdone.beehiiv.com/ u/TunbridgeWellsGirl avatar TunbridgeWellsGirl • 7mo ago Did you
subscribe to the newsletters? 😊 OkSatisfaction1845 • 3mo ago This is a great breakdown of some foundational principles. The point on Anchoring is particularly effective, and it
often works hand-in-hand with the "Decoy Effect." The classic example is movie theater popcorn: if a small is $3 and a large is $7, many will buy the small. But if you introduce a
medium "decoy" for $6.50, the $7 large suddenly seems like an undeniable value proposition, drastically increasing sales of the large. In your experience, have you found that
simple anchoring is generally sufficient for most products, or do you see significantly better conversion when implementing a full decoy strategy? It seems the latter requires more
careful pricing and positioning to get right. New to Reddit? Create your account and connect with a world of communities. Continue With Phone Number By continuing, you agree to our
User Agreement and acknowledge that you understand the Privacy Policy. Related Answers Section Related Answers Top strategies for effective team management Cultivate effective team
management by prioritizing psychological safety, clear communication, and empowering your team members. Focus on actionable strategies that build trust and accountability rather
than relying on generic team-building exercises. Foster a Culture of Trust and Psychological Safety Treat team members like adults and avoid micromanagement. "Trusting the team to
be able to complete their work without micro managing them". Encourage open communication and transparency. "Make it clear what specific skills or experiences allowed that high
performer to get where they are, and offer opportunities (projects, pairings, learning time) for others to climb that same ladder at their own pace.". Establish a no-blame culture
to promote learning from mistakes. "If instead the reaction to a mishap is to ask "How can WE improve to ensure that this doesn't happen again", we'll get a team that openly
recognizes honest mistakes and works together to figure out how to prevent them from becoming a larger mishap.". Implement Clear Communication and Goal Alignment Connect daily
tasks to the broader company strategy. "Try connecting every project or task to a clear "why"- a short statement of how it supports the bigger goal.". Delegate effectively and
provide opportunities for growth. "Delegate delegate delegate unless you're trying to get a promotion this year. Give engineers "ownership" of subsections of work, its good for
their growth too.". Conduct focused and productive meetings with clear agendas. "Have a pre-meeting discussion asynchronously and only schedule a meeting if asynchronous
communication is ineffective for that use case.". Handle High Performers and Team Dynamics Thoughtfully Address disruptive behavior from high performers directly and specifically.
"If there's specific incidents of D interrupting people or taking credit for the work of others, pointing to those specific incidents isn't vibes.". Prioritize team harmony over
individual output when necessary. "He was my top performer but looking back he dragged 20 people down by 5% each. It’s not worth it.". Coach high performers on team impact, not
just operational performance. "Someone can be fantastic in the operational part, but can really suck on the impact they have on the team. If you can clearly distinguish those, you
can also have that conversation with that person.". Are you looking for more specific strategies related to managing remote teams or resolving conflicts within a team? See Answer
Innovative marketing tactics for startups How to create a compelling business plan Resources for learning about entrepreneurship Tips for securing funding for your business More
posts you may like Classic retail psychology r/UAMY • 4mo ago Classic retail psychology r/UAMY - Classic retail psychology 118 upvotes · 24 comments Are any of you in sales? What
kind? r/autism • 3mo ago Are any of you in sales? What kind? r/autism - Are any of you in sales? What kind? 44 upvotes · 39 comments NO ONE IS FORCING YOU TO BUY r/depoop • 8mo ago
NO ONE IS FORCING YOU TO BUY r/depoop - NO ONE IS FORCING YOU TO BUY 1.3K upvotes · 97 comments u/ThriventFinancial avatar ThriventFinancial • Promoted Purpose meets planning
Thumbnail image: Purpose meets planning thrivent.com Learn More I studied 50+ buyer decisions. Here are 5 buyer psychology lessons that actually make people buy r/indiehackers •
8mo ago I studied 50+ buyer decisions. Here are 5 buyer psychology lessons that actually make people buy 3 upvotes · 1 comment I studied 50+ buyer decisions. Here are 5 buyer
psychology lessons that actually make people buy r/Entrepreneurs • 8mo ago I studied 50+ buyer decisions. Here are 5 buyer psychology lessons that actually make people buy
r/Entrepreneurs - I studied 50+ buyer decisions. Here are 5 buyer psychology lessons that actually make people buy 1 upvote How do you deal with customers? r/OfficeDepot • 10mo ago
How do you deal with customers? 36 upvotes · 10 comments I have created 8+ websites for my online businesses. This is what gets more people to buy (based on real experience and
data). r/HowToEntrepreneur • 8mo ago I have created 8+ websites for my online businesses. This is what gets more people to buy (based on real experience and data). 45 upvotes · 3
comments buyer beware! r/gardening • 2d ago buyer beware! r/gardening - buyer beware! 1.3K upvotes · 289 comments 10 Psychology Tricks That Actually Boost Your Ecommerce Sales
(From 200+ Store Audits) r/Dropshipping_Guide • 8mo ago 10 Psychology Tricks That Actually Boost Your Ecommerce Sales (From 200+ Store Audits) 3 upvotes What do people want to buy?
r/CraftFairs • 7mo ago What do people want to buy? r/CraftFairs - What do people want to buy? 23 upvotes · 12 comments why can't people be honest with what they're selling?
r/depoop • 2mo ago why can't people be honest with what they're selling? r/depoop - why can't people be honest with what they're selling? 35 upvotes · 7 comments Sales CAN be
Taught r/sales • 4d ago Sales CAN be Taught 27 comments why are some sellers so greedy r/depoop • 7mo ago why are some sellers so greedy r/depoop - why are some sellers so greedy
65 upvotes · 9 comments Customers are the epitome of selfish, entitled people who think people who work in retail are beneath them. r/RantsFromRetail • 5mo ago Customers are the
epitome of selfish, entitled people who think people who work in retail are beneath them. 506 upvotes · 67 comments Buyer r/depoop • 2mo ago Buyer r/depoop - Buyer 50 upvotes · 8
comments Customer psychology breakthrough: Why your customers lie in surveys and how I learned to read what they actually want (game-changing insights) r/indiehackers • 8mo ago
Customer psychology breakthrough: Why your customers lie in surveys and how I learned to read what they actually want (game-changing insights) 3 upvotes · 3 comments How do you
feel after selling an expensive item? What was it. r/TalesFromYourServer • 5mo ago How do you feel after selling an expensive item? What was it. 55 upvotes · 9 comments when buyers
have commitment issues r/depoop • 3mo ago when buyers have commitment issues r/depoop - when buyers have commitment issues 4 50 upvotes · 7 comments Sales psychology for founders
who hate selling: How I went from 'ew gross' to $850 revenue by reframing sales as problem-solving (complete mindset shift + scripts that work) r/indiehackers • 8mo ago Sales
psychology for founders who hate selling: How I went from 'ew gross' to $850 revenue by reframing sales as problem-solving (complete mindset shift + scripts that work) 2 comments
Buyer beware r/gardening • 7mo ago Buyer beware 7 upvotes · 7 comments Annoying buyer r/depoop • 3mo ago Annoying buyer r/depoop - Annoying buyer 63 upvotes · 19 comments Buying in
us r/gokarts • 2mo ago Buying in us r/gokarts - Buying in us 2 38 upvotes · 14 comments The marketing prompt for ChatGPT I've been refining for how to get your product to market
and get people talking about it. r/promptingmagic • 9mo ago The marketing prompt for ChatGPT I've been refining for how to get your product to market and get people talking about
it. r/promptingmagic - The marketing prompt for ChatGPT I've been refining for how to get your product to market and get people talking about it. 5 5 upvotes · 1 comment 💸 [Book
Recs] Top 5 Books to Understand How Money Really Works r/Imyourfriend • 8mo ago 💸 [Book Recs] Top 5 Books to Understand How Money Really Works 1 upvote Here is the "Customer Pain
Mining" Deep Research prompt that's better than 50 user interviews and tips on how to use insights from running it r/ChatGPTPromptGenius • 8mo ago Here is the "Customer Pain
Mining" Deep Research prompt that's better than 50 user interviews and tips on how to use insights from running it 24 upvotes · 5 comments View Post in Português (Brasil) Français
See more Community Info Section r/HowToEntrepreneur Join HowToEntrepreneur This is a community created to be a discussion board for legitimate entrepreneurs already taking action
in their business. Our aim is to share advice about managing employees, marketing, sales, and running an enterprise. Show more Public Top Posts Reddit reReddit: Top posts of
September 14, 2025 Reddit reReddit: Top posts of September 2025 Reddit reReddit: Top posts of 2025 Reddit Rules Privacy Policy User Agreement Your Privacy Choices Accessibility
Reddit, Inc. © 2026. All rights reserved. Collapse Navigation Skip to main content The Psychology Of New Founders.. : r/TheFounders r/TheFounders Search in r/TheFounders Get App
Log In Expand user menu Skip to NavigationSkip to Right Sidebar Back Go to TheFounders r/TheFounders • 20d ago ExtremeCare3691 The Psychology Of New Founders.. What Are Some Of The
Biggest Issues New Founders Face? Im doing a little research project around the growth and psychology behind founders! And I'm wanting to ask anyone who can offer some advice on
what are the biggest or most common issues new founders face, and how they could avoid it. I see a lot of people talking about founder not knowing when do do certain things like
hiring or scaling, Curious what you all would think. feel free to share your expertise! Do hashtags work on reddit? lol #Founder #Founders #Investor #Investors #AngelInvestor
#AngelInvestors #NewFounders #NewFounder #SmallBusiness #Smallbizz #newbusiness #smallbizz Upvote 2 Downvote 13 Go to comments Share u/BambooHR_Official avatar BambooHR_Official •
Promoted Learn how a structured onboarding process can save money. Download bamboohr.com Thumbnail image: Learn how a structured onboarding process can save money. Join the
conversation Sort by: Best Search Comments Expand comment search Comments Section u/Real-Joke1822 avatar Real-Joke1822 • 20d ago hashtags don’t really do anything on reddit 😄 on
the psychology side, a few patterns show up over and over: 1. confusing activity with progress busy all day, but not moving the core metric 2. avoiding reality not talking to users
ignoring weak signals waiting for “perfect” before launching 3. timing mistakes hiring too early scaling before product-market fit 4. emotional swings one good day → “this is
working” one bad day → “this is dead” 5. attachment to the idea hard to pivot because of ego or sunk cost how to avoid it: short feedback loops talk to users constantly measure
real outcomes, not effort a lot of this comes down to building the habit of facing reality quickly, which is something you see in runable-style approaches where execution and
iteration matter more than overthinking 👍 u/Single_Camera_2124 avatar Single_Camera_2124 • 19d ago Strong advice u/ExtremeCare3691 avatar ExtremeCare3691 OP • 20d ago wow thank you
for taking the time to actually create something this detailed!. These are all super useful insights and I really appreciate sharing these. Would i be able to ask you a few more
questions about this? u/tanishkacantcopee avatar tanishkacantcopee • 20d ago Trying to do everything at once instead of focusing on one thing that moves the needle
u/BusinesSupportAgency avatar BusinesSupportAgency • 20d ago Not doing reality checks KlaryteaAgain • 19d ago The fear of making mistakes. Most first time founders think they need
do everything right from the beginning. They waste time behind simple decisions like the position of a button or the color of a component. The fact is that, these things matter way
less when you’re just starting out. Your job is to get you product out there and make it reach the customer as fast as possible. Just make sure to keep the core feature of your
product functional and properly tests. Spend time on aesthetic tweaks after you have a few paying customers validate your idea. u/paradoxhz avatar paradoxhz • 18d ago it's wild how
much of a roller coaster the first year is. one day you're a genius, the next you're a fraud lol. i think the psychology of it gets easier when you start automating the stuff that
drains your energy. for me, the mental load of manual tasks was what caused the most stress. i started leaning on a mix of tools like zapier for the basics and Runable for the more
complex stuff just to get things off my plate. once you realize you don't have to do everything manually, the founder's anxiety drops a lot because you feel more like a conductor
