let your portfolio speak for itself. If you’re looking for a shortcut to make yourself seem “luxury“, then you are admitting that your work doesn’t do that for you. Think bigger
and be undeniable. u/axelomg avatar axelomg • 1y ago I get what you are saying but its somewhat of a false argument. Annie Leibowitz is already one of the most famous photographer,
she can do whatever she wants people will still want to shoot with her. The same rules don’t apply to someone else. And sure I agree that the most important part is “to be good”
but lets say that is a given, ops question was about what to do on top of that. u/Either_Weakness_3577 avatar Either_Weakness_3577 OP • 1y ago Thank you for understanding my point
☺️ Weird-Boysenberry602 • 1y ago What an insane take. If you’re posting on Reddit asking for tips you’re not “at the top end of the game” and what Annie Leibowitz does or doesn’t
do is irrelevant. u/mcdj avatar mcdj • 1y ago Fake it til you make it. u/Either_Weakness_3577 avatar Either_Weakness_3577 OP • 1y ago Haha I think that’s a bit wild, considering
that you can be a brilliant artist but absolute sh!t at business and you won’t make a cent. I’m not asking about people’s work, I’m asking about how people run their business and
when they reach a certain caliber, what helped them break into a different audience. You see it all the time, people fighting for the $500 client range, and some really talented
photographers doing so. I’m not looking to make $10,000 per photoshoot and be a runway fashion photographer. I am ready to transition into a higher portrait clientele which does in
fact require a different client experience and the problem lies within my current business model which I’m already re-writing. Why wouldn’t I want to learn from others who used to
be where I am, but made the transition? I’ve been a photographer since 2018 and only part time, now that I have the ability to make the leap to full time I want to do things right.
Me asking these questions says nothing about my work but about trying to understand where the line is. u/mcdj avatar mcdj • 1y ago • Edited 1y ago By all means, ask questions. All
I’m saying is, from my experience, as a photo assistant to over 100 professional photographers in NYC from 1989 to 1999, and as a commercial retoucher from 1999 to the present day,
I have never once seen a working photographer hand a client a questionnaire. As far as a “guide” goes, this would be something that you would implement in your estimate, covering
the number of photos, the types of photos, the deliverables, the dates, etc. Obvious_Rent8444 • 1y ago New to Reddit? Create your account and connect with a world of communities.
Continue With Phone Number By continuing, you agree to our User Agreement and acknowledge that you understand the Privacy Policy. Related Answers Section Related Answers Tips for
improving bookings as a photographer Best lenses for portrait photography Tips for capturing stunning landscapes How to improve low-light photography skills Essential gear for
travel photographers More posts you may like How do you get more comfortable around clients? r/photography • 4y ago How do you get more comfortable around clients? 19 upvotes · 37
comments u/shopify avatar shopify • Promoted Start dropshipping with Shopify - sell trending products without inventory, shipping, or warehouse costs. Thumbnail image: Start
dropshipping with Shopify - sell trending products without inventory, shipping, or warehouse costs. shopify.com Sign Up Best yet simple online delivery method for photos to
clients? r/WeddingPhotography • 2y ago Best yet simple online delivery method for photos to clients? 6 upvotes · 43 comments How do you know a client is happy with their photos ?
r/photography • 6y ago How do you know a client is happy with their photos ? 272 upvotes · 46 comments Advice on how to proceed with a client r/photography • 4y ago Advice on how
to proceed with a client 46 upvotes · 106 comments Delivering Photos To Client r/photography • 1y ago Delivering Photos To Client 13 upvotes · 49 comments Does anyone have
experience offering photography on Airbnb as a service? r/photography • 9mo ago Does anyone have experience offering photography on Airbnb as a service? 4 upvotes · 13 comments
Photography workshop in London r/photography • 2y ago Photography workshop in London 3 upvotes · 7 comments Best place for sharing photos with client r/photography • 3y ago Best
place for sharing photos with client 31 upvotes · 68 comments How to make the most out of (bad) client photos? r/webdev • 3y ago How to make the most out of (bad) client photos? 11
upvotes · 19 comments How did you secure your first paid Coaching Client? r/lifecoaching • 1y ago How did you secure your first paid Coaching Client? 14 upvotes · 24 comments What
apps actually made a difference for your productivity? r/ProductivityApps • 1y ago What apps actually made a difference for your productivity? 114 upvotes · 117 comments tell me
about the worst client you've ever had r/photography • 6mo ago tell me about the worst client you've ever had 5 upvotes · 16 comments Is my client messing with me? r/photography •
1mo ago Is my client messing with me? 56 upvotes · 68 comments What to do after a client doesn't like the deliverables? (also a rant) r/photography • 3mo ago What to do after a
client doesn't like the deliverables? (also a rant) 45 upvotes · 37 comments What's your actual gallery delivery workflow look like? r/WeddingPhotography • 3mo ago What's your
actual gallery delivery workflow look like? 5 upvotes · 25 comments What is your process right after booking a new wedding client? r/WeddingPhotography • 4y ago What is your
process right after booking a new wedding client? 9 upvotes · 21 comments Photography work experience r/photography • 3y ago Photography work experience 1 upvote · 6 comments When
customer experience was more important than just profiting r/WhoMadeThisThing • 1mo ago When customer experience was more important than just profiting r/WhoMadeThisThing - When
customer experience was more important than just profiting 0:26 1.1K upvotes · 9 comments Seeking Clients? How are you doing it? r/interiordesigner • 3mo ago Seeking Clients? How
are you doing it? 8 upvotes · 21 comments How do you get clients? r/SMMA • 13d ago How do you get clients? 23 upvotes · 40 comments software for the client to view their images
r/WeddingPhotography • 3y ago software for the client to view their images 8 comments best way to deliver photos to "clients"? r/photography • 8mo ago best way to deliver photos to
"clients"? 9 upvotes · 55 comments Marketing agency owners: what’s slowly killing your will to live right now? (Lead gen? Time consuming proposals? Clients not handling
conversations timely?) r/marketing • 1y ago Marketing agency owners: what’s slowly killing your will to live right now? (Lead gen? Time consuming proposals? Clients not handling
conversations timely?) 10 upvotes · 13 comments I need help dealing with a particularly difficult client r/photography • 2y ago I need help dealing with a particularly difficult
client 44 upvotes · 72 comments How do you present your photos for the client to choose what they want? r/photography • 11y ago How do you present your photos for the client to
choose what they want? 13 upvotes · 12 comments View Post in हिन्दी 简体中文 日本語 Português (Brasil) Français See more Community Info Section r/photography Join Photography
/r/photography is a place to politely discuss the tools, technique, art and culture of photography and to post topics that would be of interest to other photographers. Show more
Public Top Posts Reddit reReddit: Top posts of June 21, 2025 Reddit reReddit: Top posts of June 2025 Reddit reReddit: Top posts of 2025 Reddit Rules Privacy Policy User Agreement
Your Privacy Choices Accessibility Reddit, Inc. © 2026. All rights reserved. Collapse Navigation Skip to main content Tips for getting clients as a new photographer? :
r/photography r/photography Search in r/photography Get App Log In Expand user menu Skip to NavigationSkip to Right Sidebar Back Go to photography r/photography • 10y ago
Wetscherpants Tips for getting clients as a new photographer? Hello reddit, It seems there are more photographers than ever these days. I myself am new to the game however Im
finding it very difficult to attract any clientelle. I have not earned my stripes enough to be a real critic of other photographers but I do see photographers taking worse pictures
than me at a very expensive price points and getting tons of business. I've advertised on community buy and sell sites.. Maybe I should make a website? That might be hard as I need
more clients to expand my portfolio first. Any tips would be very welcome Thanks so much! Here is a sample of a shoot I took recently. http://imgur.com/3Mb7swP EDIT: I am so
thankful for all the great advice on here and for the reddit community in general. It's a little uneasy when you first start out looking for business and not having any success but
everything you guys are saying makes total sense. It's refreshing to hear from people who have gone through it themselves. Thank you so much again for all the great advice.
Archived post. New comments cannot be posted and votes cannot be cast. Upvote 33 Downvote 23 Go to comments Share u/Typeform avatar Typeform • Promoted If r/userexperience designed
forms, they'd look like Typeform. Sign Up typeform.com Thumbnail image: If r/userexperience designed forms, they'd look like Typeform. Sort by: Best Comments Section [deleted] •
10y ago Let's flip this around. You're looking for a photographer. You have this young kid who SWEARS he's good...better than most people in your area in fact! But he doesn't have
a website for you to see his work. Would you hire him? u/mlphoto avatar mlphoto • 10y ago Can't believe how many people on r/photography don't put themselves in the position of
their potential clients. u/Lumpiest_Princess avatar Lumpiest_Princess • 10y ago This is a great way to put it. iJonMai • 10y ago In order to build a website to post work, he needs
money. Which requires clients. It's a pretty hefty price to host your own website with your own domain and what not. Then again, if you cared enough, you would pour the money in to
start it up. I personally would just have a portfolio on Flickr to share. Easy and free. [deleted] • 10y ago My site is like $100 for a year. Not a big investment if you're trying
to make a business that is successful. Edit: but yes there are tons of free options. But the OP isn't talking about website options. He's talking about people paying him to build
his portfolio. u/Ardal avatar Ardal • 10y ago To be honest there are dozens of website 'self builders' that offer a free site with sufficient scope to show a portfolio (for a start
up) Once business improves it's easy to take it to the next level, often just by paying for the 'pro' service from the web builder of choice. u/doodiestew avatar doodiestew • 10y
ago $14.99 for the domain for the year (godaddy.com) and a $5-10 investment per month for the web building service (weebly) isn't hefty. There are DOZENS upon DOZENS of sites that
offer easy templates for people who don't know web design that cost next to nothing, especially in comparison to the cost of equipment. u/Iusedtobethatguy avatar Iusedtobethatguy •
10y ago Here's how you build a portfolio: arrange shoots with family and friends, treating it like it was a paid shoot. Work on your skills under those conditions. Then start
asking people you meet (good looking people) if they would be interested in modeling for you. Trade their time for images. Put those images on your portfolio. Get paid clients with
your awesome images. Remember, it takes time to develop your clients as well as developing your own skills. Look at the professional work being done out there and compare your own
to it. Humbling, at least it is for me. PS. I finally dropped the $72 and got a squarespace site. I highly recommend. www.mccormickimages.com u/philistineinquisitor avatar
philistineinquisitor • 10y ago You're using the same template as I. I love Squarespace. www.aldocgracia.com u/tys123 avatar tys123 • 10y ago Nice website, would you mind if I gave
you some feedback? I really suggest you change your 'about me' page. It sounds unprofessional. Cuando llegue a vivir a la Ciudad de México, estuve buscando apartamentos en renta,
después en venta, y en todo ese proceso no pude evitar notar la ausencia total de fotografía profesional en la venta y promoción de inmuebles. Boring text IMO, I want facts about
your work, how your clients have accomplished sales based on your photos, not some 10 day personal experience. En Octubre de 2015, decidí cerrar mi negocio y emprender este
proyecto. I would hire you until I read this. Not trying to discourage you, but 4 months experience is not something you want to brag about. This is not about your works being bad,
it's actually really good, but I wouldn't trust 10k+ pesos on someone with 4 months experience. Actualmente soy el único fotógrafo profesional dedicado a las bienes raíces en la
Ciudad de México. Really? 8.8 million on this city, yet you are the only one doing this? Searching on google won't even bring your website to the top page. This sentence seems to
be like a high school kid bragging about something irrelevant that is probably not even true. I hope you don't mind my feedback! 1 more reply [deleted] • 10y ago
u/kouignamann_kingdom avatar kouignamann_kingdom • 10y ago I've started professional photography one year ago. Here's my two-cent. There are a lot of photographers out there. And
that's great. Because now people are more sensible to photography and look for something more specific. They want something with style, not just pictures. Professional photography
is tough. It's adding one crazy factor in the equation : clients. Enthousiast photographer : "Once I juggled with 5 balls." Professional photographer : "I juggle everyday with 3
chainsaws. While riding a lion. Over a volcano." The focus here is on the repetition. You have to be convinced on your hability to deliver good work no matter the conditions :
crazy client, rain, bad lighting, camera half-broken... And you have to convince other people you can do it. This is how you convince clients. And also business. An average
photographer with a MBA has more chance to survive in the long run than someone with an art degree in photography. That was just a side note. When I started I had a website with my
travel pictures. I wanted the website to look as nice and profesional as possible. Then I spread the word among my friend that I was looking for an opportunity to shoot something
for free. A couple was looking for someone to shoot their wedding. They were OK with their wedding being the first for me and they liked my travel pictures a lot. I prepared hard,
did a good job. And that was it. I had something nice to put in my portfolio and it kickstarted the whole thing. tl;dr : Being a professional is hard. You need a website. You need
pictures to kickstart your portfolio. It's relatively easy to find people willing to have you shoot pictures for free as long as you can convince them on your ability to deliver
good work. almathden • 10y ago Ok let's see. but I do see photographers taking worse pictures than me at a very expensive price points and getting tons of business. Cool, your
'eye' is better than their skill. That's important, because to them, they're doing good work. This will mean that even if you aren't better than they are, you will be.
(https://vimeo.com/85040589) I've advertised on community buy and sell sites.. Maybe I should make a website? That might be hard as I need more clients to expand my portfolio
first. Any tips would be very welcome Well here's the deal. If you really want to go bargain basement and not pay for any hosting, you could use something like tumblr and redirect
that to a domain name ($5-10/yr USD?) Or if you use the CC photo plan (10/mo) that includes a portfolio site as well. Not sure how great it is but I know it's an option.
http://imgur.com/3Mb7swP I feel like your highlights/exposure are a bit hot but that's all I've got for you u/clickgearclothing avatar clickgearclothing • 10y ago One thing that
you have to understand about being a photographer who is looking to make money is that your images only matter a very small percent to the people who are hiring you. Being a
photographer is about building relationships, being active in your community, and especially in the beginning doing a ton of work for free. You have to build a portfolio, a book of
business, and people have to know you exist. Eventually this means that you have to put money into advertising, a website, business cards, and all of those things. You want people
to pay you then you have to be willing to do the things that it takes to be in business and it is not easy. I am sure that any of the professionals in this group would agree. Take
it one day at a time. Make all of your friends get in front of your camera, and then their friends, and theirs. Get better at shooting and more importantly starting building
relationships with the people around you. Once you have done that for 6 months then start charging. No one is going to hit you up for work if you haven't put in the time. It takes
lots and lots of time. So get out there and hustle your ass off and it will come! [deleted] • 10y ago Are you and your friends on Facebook? If so, make a post asking if anyone
would like to have free portraits done. They get free edited images to take to get printed out or whatever, you get experience with people and some photos for your portfolio. Also
Facebook has groups that are all about meeting up for photo shoots, and these often have new photographers, models and makeup artists in mind. You may have to pay a fee to do a
shoot, but sometimes not. You might even be able to post in that group a request for models. Lots of ways you can get images for your portfolio/website. u/Wetscherpants avatar
Wetscherpants OP • 10y ago Just want to also clarify that maybe my wording was wrong when posting this question. I am not simply looking to get paid I was just looking for more
ways to get clients. I have advertised on local buy and sell sites as mentioned as being an extremely affordable photographer. Maybe I should just change that to an ad to do free
portraits. Again thank you ever layover for your feedback this far. TLDR was not trying to sound like all I'm after is money just wanted good advice to get clients and I think I'll
advertise free portraits. pimpys • 10y ago It's as simple as that. You know how to photograph. You want a portfolio. Talk to people and give them free portraits. People agree. You
get pictures. When you think you have enough build a portfolio and put it online. Then you can start to get clients. After that you need to know what people want and zone that area
a bit (weddings, photo sessions, photography lessons, etc). Focus and get people attention. If you are good people will recommend you. Ask for feedback. u/playground_ai avatar
u/playground_ai • Promoted Playground AI has thousands of POD and cricut templates you can edit and personalize! Sign Up playground.com Clickable image which will reveal the video
player: Playground AI has thousands of POD and cricut templates you can edit and personalize! Collapse video player 0:00 / 0:00 jeremynsl • 10y ago The portrait is very nice. Try
getting a free portfolio on carbonmade.com. You can add 35 images for free, which if you have 35 excellent images should be enough to show off your skills. officialjnoel • 10mo ago
Add your service to justquicktools.com/find-photographers It's free and organized so people can find you more easily u/Wetscherpants avatar Wetscherpants OP • 10y ago Thanks for
the feedback and advise guys I really appreciate it. I don't disagree that I need a website as the first commenter had mentioned however to have a website you need pictures to have
pictures you need clients. Just trying to figure out how to get the clients so I can get the website. Again thanks so muxh for your feedback and suggestions. I admit I do need to
work on not over exposing on my images :) [deleted] • 10y ago however to have a website you need pictures to have pictures you need clients. And that's where you're wrong. No one
is going to pay you if they don't know you can deliver not only good photos but good customer service. If portraits or families or whatever is what you want to do, then you do
those things for free for friends & families & whoever you feel is photogenic until you have enough images for a website. Don't think anyone is gonna pay you just because you say
you're good & don't make excuses on not having enough images to show because people won't hire you. That's a sure recipe for your new "business" to be over before it even starts.
u/theoffalo avatar theoffalo • 10y ago Sign up for a free Wordpress.com site, and use one of the free (non-Premium) themes: https://theme.wordpress.com/themes/subjects/photography/
New to Reddit? Create your account and connect with a world of communities. Continue With Phone Number By continuing, you agree to our User Agreement and acknowledge that you
understand the Privacy Policy. Related Answers Section Related Answers How beginners can find photography clients Best lenses for portrait photography Tips for capturing stunning
landscapes How to improve low-light photography skills Essential gear for travel photographers More posts you may like How to practice beginner photography around the house
(limited mobility)? r/photography • 5y ago How to practice beginner photography around the house (limited mobility)? 94 upvotes · 51 comments u/OpenAI avatar OpenAI • Promoted
Build impossible creations with ChatGPT Thumbnail image: Build impossible creations with ChatGPT chatgpt.com Learn More Whats the best way YOU have found at getting clients?
r/photography • 2y ago Whats the best way YOU have found at getting clients? 2 upvotes · 23 comments How to actually find constant clients? r/photography • 2y ago How to actually
find constant clients? 53 upvotes · 28 comments Juggling primes, any tips? r/photography • 1y ago Juggling primes, any tips? 40 upvotes · 40 comments How did you start finding
clients? r/photography • 3y ago How did you start finding clients? 10 upvotes · 14 comments Where To Focus Eyes r/juggling • 2y ago Where To Focus Eyes 6 upvotes · 23 comments
Street photographers: How do you quickly find your exposure (specially during evenings/night?) r/Nikon • 2y ago Street photographers: How do you quickly find your exposure
(specially during evenings/night?) 18 upvotes · 40 comments Struggling to find clients as a freelance photographer... any ideas ? r/photography • 4y ago Struggling to find clients
as a freelance photographer... any ideas ? 56 upvotes · 46 comments For those of you who are full time photogs, when did you switch over to full time vs juggling a few clients?
r/photography • 5y ago For those of you who are full time photogs, when did you switch over to full time vs juggling a few clients? 66 upvotes · 24 comments Struggling to get
clients as a freelance photographer r/photography • 2y ago Struggling to get clients as a freelance photographer 34 upvotes · 30 comments I'm a new photographer and need advice on
marketing r/photography • 7mo ago I'm a new photographer and need advice on marketing 2 upvotes · 16 comments How to get clients as portrait photographer? r/photography • 2y ago
How to get clients as portrait photographer? r/photography - How to get clients as portrait photographer? google 15 upvotes · 23 comments Beginner here, please suggest me your MOST
favorite photographer I should learn from. r/photography • 21d ago Beginner here, please suggest me your MOST favorite photographer I should learn from. 70 upvotes · 128 comments
What would like to get as a gift as a photographer r/photography • 2mo ago What would like to get as a gift as a photographer 10 upvotes · 77 comments What are some good questions
to ask a photographer/videographer? r/photography • 1y ago What are some good questions to ask a photographer/videographer? 19 upvotes · 32 comments Client citing themselves as
photographer in post instead of the actual photographer r/photography • 2mo ago Client citing themselves as photographer in post instead of the actual photographer 78 upvotes · 50
comments Need advice re: professional photos r/photography • 2mo ago Need advice re: professional photos 24 upvotes · 80 comments tips on how to promote my photography business?
r/photography • 10mo ago tips on how to promote my photography business? 4 upvotes · 15 comments What parts of being a professional photographer isn’t talked about enough?
r/photography • 1mo ago What parts of being a professional photographer isn’t talked about enough? 82 upvotes · 145 comments I need some advice to look good in photos r/photography
• 2mo ago I need some advice to look good in photos 11 upvotes · 19 comments Is anyone a part of a photography community? r/photography • 17d ago Is anyone a part of a photography
community? 87 upvotes · 78 comments Anyone else in a crisis with photography? r/photography • 1mo ago Anyone else in a crisis with photography? 88 comments Getting into photography
and want to learn quickly. r/photography • 1y ago Getting into photography and want to learn quickly. 6 upvotes · 54 comments Photography Websites? r/photography • 1mo ago
Photography Websites? 13 comments Starting a Photography Internship- advice? r/photography • 8mo ago Starting a Photography Internship- advice? 5 upvotes · 5 comments View Post in
Français Русский Português (Brasil) हिन्दी 繁體中文 简体中文 See more Community Info Section r/photography Join Photography /r/photography is a place to politely discuss the tools,
technique, art and culture of photography and to post topics that would be of interest to other photographers. Show more Public Top Posts Reddit reReddit: Top posts of March 7,
2016 Reddit reReddit: Top posts of March 2016 Reddit reReddit: Top posts of 2016 Reddit Rules Privacy Policy User Agreement Your Privacy Choices Accessibility Reddit, Inc. © 2026.
All rights reserved. Collapse Navigation Skip to main content How do you get more clients when you legally can’t show your work? (Not beginner) : r/AskPhotography r/AskPhotography
Search in r/AskPhotography Get App Log In Expand user menu Skip to NavigationSkip to Right Sidebar Back Go to AskPhotography r/AskPhotography • 8mo ago Important-Switch-686 How do
you get more clients when you legally can’t show your work? (Not beginner) Business/Pricing Okay so this question is for experience photographers with higher end brands as clients.
I just started shooting for clients that are Fortune 500 companies. Since the talent is celebrity talent I technically can’t post or include in a website. So how do you guys deal
with not showing off some of your most impressive work publicly? Archived post. New comments cannot be posted and votes cannot be cast. Upvote 11 Downvote 23 Go to comments Share
u/AlaskaAir avatar AlaskaAir • Promoted When you fly with Hawaiian Airlines, you’re invited to experience authentic Hawaiian hospitality and enjoy the comforts of our island home.
Hawai‘i starts here Hawai‘i starts here Hawai‘i starts here hawaiianairlines.com Book Now Sort by: Best Search Comments Expand comment search Comments Section MuttTheDutchie • 8mo
ago You can: Get permission to post it and ask for a byline Create adjacent work and use it as an example with a link to the finished products Create specific portfolio pieces and
then allude to the fact that you know how to work in those situations Important-Switch-686 OP • 8mo ago What do you mean by adjacent work? Like just similar stuff and say “hey
check out this really cool campaign? And with the byline - sadly companies are too strict to go for that. MuttTheDutchie • 8mo ago "Here's an example of the work I do in X
situation. *Examples*. You can also see my work if you happen to see the latest from *company where you did work*" 1 more reply Substantial_Life4773 • 8mo ago This is probably the
answer. Provide links to the work elsewhere. And just generally a list of work or companies you've worked for. zgtc • 8mo ago Just because you can't use the images doesn't mean
you're barred from disclosing who you've worked with. Also, most high end brand/corporate photographers I've met are getting work via word of mouth from their existing clients, not
through portfolio websites. Lastly, if disclosing a couple images taken under an NDA is the difference between getting a major contract and not, it's absolutely worth reaching out
and seeing if said client will provide authorization for that specific purpose. As long as you're not posting your images all over the internet or accidentally leaking corporate
secrets, most companies will be amenable to letting you show one or two to select potential clients. Important-Switch-686 OP • 8mo ago Word of mouth’s where I’m at now- I stumbled
into this lol so navigating this as someone who didn’t expect to be here is fascinating u/WRB2 avatar WRB2 • 8mo ago Crop faces out and ask permission perhaps? Archinarch • 8mo ago
Mind sharing how you stumbled into something like this? 2 more replies u/TinfoilCamera avatar TinfoilCamera Cake icon • 8mo ago Since the talent is celebrity talent I technically
can’t post or include in a website Bollocks - you absolutely can do that - but you have to be "once removed", ie, the "adjacent work" u/MuttTheDutchie alluded to. Ie, you do not
show the original work. You show the advertisement itself. Was the work you created publicly displayed, showed, etc? Then the way you do this is you take a photo of that work, ie,
flop open the magazine - so that it's obvious it's the magazine - take a photo of the photo, and if possible link to it. If it was publicly displayed, like on the Jumbotron in
Times Square? You take a photo of the Jumbotron when your shot is being shown. "I did that!" -- you are now editorializing. Representative Sample: Chris Knight Photography Comment
Image Besides... more impressive this way anyway. Edit: Should point out that getting permission to use the images is the best course, but this runs a close second. Also, if you're
under NDA definitely run this all past an attorney before pulling the trigger as there may be clauses in your contract specifically barring this kind of usage. u/toot_suite avatar
toot_suite • 8mo ago You can also have a private website where you store photos of your work and password protect it so nobody can access it other than you. You can then show it
only in person or via secured screenshare sessions. That's pretty normal to do in tech for software for similar reasons You can also offer free work/do your own photos of things on
your own to showcase your skills in adjacent scenarios attrill • 8mo ago Always get rights to use in your portfolio, either publicly or behind a password. If for some reason that
is impossible take photos of the images in their final use - i.e. shots of printed material, billboards, or screenshots. NoReveal3311 • 8mo ago You didn’t see you mention you are
contractually obligated not to post. Is that the case? u/IKEA_USA avatar u/IKEA_USA • Promoted From smart organization solutions to stylish appliances, IKEA has everything to bring
your kitchen vision to life. Smart organization Sinks and faucets Top appliances Innovative solutions ikea.com Learn More annoyedvideographer • 8mo ago Ive runinto this exact
problem where I didnt have rights to post it publicly. I just show it in a private gallery whenever I'm networking and talking to potential clients. It's not the best solution but
it's what I've come up with that doesn't violate my contracts u/Huge_Razzmatazz_985 avatar Huge_Razzmatazz_985 • 8mo ago I spent a career in The adult industry. I got stuck because
when you say you did marketing and development for adult industry it's frowned upon. I was there when the internet started and pay gates and processing were created. I e built 150k
a month products managed email lists that grew to over 3 million per month and was never hired in mainstream no matter how much I applied. This is a tough situation. If you are
young and you want to show your work transition to mainstream is my advice. whiskyshot • 8mo ago Do passion projects or ask your friends to model for you to build your portfolio.
Resqu23 • 8mo ago I shoot professional live theatre sometimes and the copyright rules are crazy to the point I keep everything locked on my website. If you want to see my work,
meet me and I will show you but would never send anything online. Too much risk. u/BestCoolWishes avatar BestCoolWishes • 8mo ago Yes, as others have mentioned get some friends or
a few models maybe even TFP and get similar looks for your portfolio (and the model can showcase the work in their portfolios). u/megamanfan86 avatar megamanfan86 • 8mo ago If the
finished work appears on the internet… just link to that. ginnymorlock • 8mo ago One possible solution is to hire talent and build up a portfolio of non-prohibited works. Unless
you're forbidden, you could show a list of your current clients, even if you can't show the results. When I was doing commercial work, I asked around for permission to use select
photos for advertisement. Some said no but enough said yes that I was able to put something together. Poelewoep • 8mo ago Every job north of €2-5k/day should be brickwalled by your
client with proper NDAs and legal work-for-hire limitations. No exceptions! In the eyes of a company you, as the photographer are the actual liability. The sad part is that it is
rare to see photographer’s these days who have their business correctly organized; use decent lawyer/are fully insured (incl. health!!!). Don’t forget, It’s their campaign, their
art-direction, their IP and only their reputation that’s at stake. You were a hired contractor and if you did the job well the agencies involved will put you on file. If you
screwed up all will know too. It’s indeed - as mentioned - word of mouth. New to Reddit? Create your account and connect with a world of communities. Continue With Phone Number By
continuing, you agree to our User Agreement and acknowledge that you understand the Privacy Policy. Related Answers Section Related Answers Best lenses for portrait photography
Choosing the best lens for portrait photography depends on your camera system, desired aesthetic, and budget, with Redditors frequently recommending 85mm, 50mm, and 70-200mm f/2.8
lenses for their versatility and ability to produce flattering results. Popular Focal Lengths for Portraits 85mm lenses are widely considered ideal for traditional portraits due to
their flattering compression and ability to create beautiful background blur. "85mm to me is the ideal portrait length." 50mm lenses are praised for their versatility, offering a
natural perspective that closely matches human vision and performing well for both headshots and wider environmental portraits. "My favorite portrait length for most of my work,
but I like shooting a lot looser… full body, or horizontal frame waist up." 70-200mm f/2.8 zoom lenses are a highly recommended workhorse, providing excellent versatility for
various portrait distances and offering impressive background separation. "To be honest, and I know it is heavy: the 70-200mm f/2.8 with stabilizing. Versatile, great bokeh, great
background separation. Absolutely stunning." Key Considerations for Lens Selection Aperture Size (f-stop): A wide aperture (e.g., f/1.2, f/1.4, f/1.8, f/2.8) is crucial for
achieving the sought-after bokeh effect, blurring the background to make the subject stand out. "If you want bokeh, you'll need the aperture of f1.4 / 1.8." Prime vs. Zoom Lenses:
Prime lenses (fixed focal length) often offer superior image quality and wider apertures at a lower cost, while zoom lenses provide flexibility in framing without changing lenses.
"Prime with low aperture. 35mm or 50mm usually, I prefer shorter focal lengths" Sensor Size: The camera's sensor size impacts the effective focal length and depth of field. "To
talk about a focal length without mentioning the sensor size is misleading." Advanced and Specialty Lenses 105mm and 135mm lenses are also popular choices for portraits, especially
for tighter headshots, offering distinct compression and bokeh characteristics. "85mm, 105mm, 135mm and 200mm would be most used portrait lens." Sigma and Viltrox produce
well-regarded and often more affordable prime lenses that deliver excellent image quality for portraiture. "The Sigma 56mm f/1.4 is a great portrait lens." Are you looking for lens
recommendations for a specific camera brand or type? See Answer Tips for shooting in low light conditions How to choose the right camera for beginners Essential gear for landscape
photography Creative techniques for macro photography More posts you may like [for hire] how u still didn't write your professional resume? r/freelance_forhire • 10mo ago [for
hire] how u still didn't write your professional resume? 1 upvote u/theskinnypop avatar theskinnypop • Promoted SKINNYPOP is the real main character in this lunchbox. Grab one.
Thumbnail image: SKINNYPOP is the real main character in this lunchbox. Grab one. costco.com Shop Now How do I get into professional work? r/AskPhotography • 3mo ago How do I get
into professional work? r/AskPhotography - How do I get into professional work? 7 48 upvotes · 18 comments How can I make my pictures better ? r/AskPhotography • 2mo ago How can I
make my pictures better ? r/AskPhotography - How can I make my pictures better ? 20 81 upvotes · 40 comments Anyone here work for Asplundh and willing to share LCQS? r/TreeClimbing
• 8mo ago Anyone here work for Asplundh and willing to share LCQS? 12 upvotes · 19 comments Small Business SEO Optimization on hiring someone local vs wherever (Honest Takes) Not
just wanting messages for hire me, I will just ignore those. r/SEO • 8mo ago Small Business SEO Optimization on hiring someone local vs wherever (Honest Takes) Not just wanting
messages for hire me, I will just ignore those. 8 upvotes · 20 comments What app do you guys use to message your clients? r/TattooArtists • 1y ago What app do you guys use to
message your clients? 7 upvotes · 25 comments How would I take a similar pic? r/AskPhotography • 18d ago How would I take a similar pic? r/AskPhotography - How would I take a
similar pic? 4 530 upvotes · 30 comments How could I improve? r/AskPhotography • 1mo ago How could I improve? r/AskPhotography - How could I improve? 5 90 upvotes · 105 comments
How do make it stand out? r/AskPhotography • 4mo ago How do make it stand out? r/AskPhotography - How do make it stand out? 36 upvotes · 22 comments Photographers - give me your
best advice from experience? r/AskPhotography • 3mo ago Photographers - give me your best advice from experience? 55 upvotes · 208 comments They’re fine, but how to make my
portraits look professional? r/AskPhotography • 8mo ago They’re fine, but how to make my portraits look professional? r/AskPhotography - They’re fine, but how to make my portraits
look professional? 4 349 upvotes · 166 comments How do I get photos to look like this? r/AskPhotography • 1mo ago How do I get photos to look like this? r/AskPhotography - How do I
get photos to look like this? 4 479 upvotes · 46 comments How can I make this type of photography? r/AskPhotography • 22d ago How can I make this type of photography?
r/AskPhotography - How can I make this type of photography? 5 338 upvotes · 143 comments What are your thoughts for how this look is achieved? r/AskPhotography • 5mo ago What are
