to start shadowing and eventually second shooting, he said he’d be way too stressed trying to actually photograph the day, but he genuinely enjoys this kind of assisting! We get to
spend extra time together, we both get fed well, and the whole setup definitely feels like it helps couples feel more relaxed :) win win! 4 more replies u/dream43 avatar dream43 •
3y ago Your husband should now also be the BTS shooter since this is becoming an actual service clients are hiring out here in SoCal. [deleted] • 3y ago I use Pic-Time for
galleries. Recently I started providing clients with a store credit for printing. Its usually around $100, but depends on the package they booked. It's actually increased the sales
in the print store for me significantly, so its paid for itself. OkOne2171 OP • 3y ago This is a great idea. Thanks for sharing. X4dow • 3y ago I don't give my clients hampers with
drinks/popcorn etc to see my photos and video. Almost make a point of saying that I don't spend 100 bucks on "trying to make my product look better" with pretty packaging. My
product is my photos and video and that's the wow factor. I'm sure if you (my clients) want to splash 100 bucks on a bottle of champagne to drink along watching my photos/videos,
they know which one to buy and I rather make my prices 100 bucks cheaper than buying all that crap CionStudios775 • 3y ago I just go above and beyond on the day of, be pleasant to
work with and remove as much stress as possible for the couple. I don't personally see the point in giving them a gift but maybe shipping a print to them would be a nice addition.
eniallet • 3y ago Hi all. I've lurking here for a bit. It's amazing all the people and advice here. What a resource. I recently started shooting weddings and portraits. One of the
services I will provide involves turning their favorite wedding photo into a beautiful piece of art. I glass fuse and make copper enamel pendants. Once my website is up, I will
provide the option to create a decal of any photo chosen by the bride and groom. This decal can then be fused onto a hand-made glass plate or bowl using their preferred colors and
designs (within reason). I can also make a copper enamel pendant with a similar photo decal on it which is also hand painted with glass powder. I'm not sure if it will be wanted,
but I guess I'll find out soon enough. It's definitely different! 1 more reply Dry-Wheel-6324 • 3y ago I bring an old Polaroid camera and take a few shots through the day and give
those to them at the end. u/Typeform avatar u/Typeform • Promoted Impress your audience with forms that feel effortless to fill out ✨ Learn More typeform.com Thumbnail image:
Impress your audience with forms that feel effortless to fill out ✨ [deleted] • 3y ago I’m literally just nice and you’d be amazed at how people go crazy over that. I’m not even
saying I’m like this super nice person in every day life, because I’m probably not. I just make sure I’m nice to my clients and their families; I make sure I’m smiling, I check in
throughout the day to make sure all of their needs are being met (including their immediate family’s) and if it means I need to do something that isn’t necessarily my job but will
take up 3 minutes of my time, I’m going to do it and with a smile. I’m always shown gratitude by those I’m doing it for, and I get the majority of my clients these days through
referrals, so why would I not? I never understand when I see other vendors rolling their eyes at certain requests or acting like they don’t want to be there. 1 more reply
u/golden-lining avatar golden-lining • 3y ago Debating if we continue doing it honestly, but the last few years we give a thank you card, a necklace with their wedding date stamped
on it, along with a pair of socks. All are hand made from local to our city companies. If they don’t suit the vibe, we’ll give them two socks or two necklaces depending. We don’t
charge extra on our packages for this, we just claim it as an expense. u/Gonzokittycat avatar Gonzokittycat • 3y ago I tally up the number of clients I’ve had for the current year,
figure out a percentage I can donate, then do a randomly generated draw for who gets that donation made in their name (so they get the tax receipt). Last year I drew 3 names and
donated to 3 charities. Nobody needs my logo on a trinket, but a tax write off? Hellz yes. I’d actually love to see this idea get more popular in the wedding industry. No. More.
Waste! OkOne2171 OP • 3y ago Very interesting. Thank you for sharing. u/lilstar323 avatar lilstar323 • 7mo ago I handcraft custom photo shells from Cape May — photographers send a
favorite client image, and I transfer it by hand (not decoupaged) onto real shells, finish with resin, and package them gift-ready. A meaningful thank-you that clients never
forget. 👉 shelltalescapemay.etsy.com New to Reddit? Create your account and connect with a world of communities. Continue With Phone Number By continuing, you agree to our User
Agreement and acknowledge that you understand the Privacy Policy. Related Answers Section Related Answers Wedding photography client gift box ideas Creative photography client
gifts Ideas for wedding gifts for clients How to attract wedding photography clients Unique wedding photography styles to explore More posts you may like Turning Proposal Clients
into Wedding Clients and Future Milestones r/WeddingPhotography • 1y ago Turning Proposal Clients into Wedding Clients and Future Milestones 7 upvotes · 11 comments What made the
biggest impact on client experience and bookings? r/photography • 1y ago What made the biggest impact on client experience and bookings? 4 upvotes · 19 comments How do you get
clients? r/WeddingPhotography • 2y ago How do you get clients? 3 upvotes · 36 comments Promoted sidebar promoted post thumbnail Unhappy client r/WeddingPhotography • 7mo ago
Unhappy client 21 upvotes · 56 comments What is everyone using to send questionnaires to their clients? r/WeddingPhotography • 6mo ago What is everyone using to send questionnaires
to their clients? 8 upvotes · 28 comments Client gifts r/WeddingPhotography • 2y ago Client gifts 12 upvotes · 32 comments How has being a wedding photographer changed how you
planned your own wedding (or plan to)? r/WeddingPhotography • 8y ago How has being a wedding photographer changed how you planned your own wedding (or plan to)? 18 upvotes · 32
comments Wedding photographers... what is a gift you actually want to receive? r/photography • 7y ago Wedding photographers... what is a gift you actually want to receive? 8
upvotes · 17 comments Promoted sidebar promoted post thumbnail Wedding photographers... what is a gift you actually want?? r/WeddingPhotography • 7y ago Wedding photographers...
what is a gift you actually want?? 24 upvotes · 33 comments Client Gifts r/WeddingPhotography • 2y ago Client Gifts 2 upvotes · 6 comments Do wedding photographers get clients from
Pinterest? r/WeddingPhotography • 9d ago Do wedding photographers get clients from Pinterest? 9 upvotes · 20 comments How do you usually ask wedding clients for reviews? Do they
actually respond? r/WeddingPhotography • 7mo ago How do you usually ask wedding clients for reviews? Do they actually respond? 9 upvotes · 36 comments Getting wedding photography
clients r/WeddingPhotography • 3y ago Getting wedding photography clients 4 upvotes · 16 comments Photography Fanatic Gifts Ideas r/photography • 2y ago Photography Fanatic Gifts
Ideas 14 upvotes · 13 comments Who do you use for inventory insurance? r/Flipping • 3y ago Who do you use for inventory insurance? 9 upvotes · 12 comments Planning Organization
r/wedding • 4y ago Planning Organization 11 upvotes · 29 comments Seeking Clients? How are you doing it? r/interiordesigner • 3mo ago Seeking Clients? How are you doing it? 8
upvotes · 21 comments Sighted a good one today! Entitled bride tells photographer to bring a wedding gift. r/weddingshaming • 10mo ago Sighted a good one today! Entitled bride
tells photographer to bring a wedding gift. r/weddingshaming - Sighted a good one today! Entitled bride tells photographer to bring a wedding gift. 8.4K upvotes · 253 comments How
are you booking clients? r/WeddingPhotography • 7mo ago How are you booking clients? 18 upvotes · 32 comments I'm new to this, but finding clients has been excessively
demoralising, does it get better? r/WeddingPhotography • 2y ago I'm new to this, but finding clients has been excessively demoralising, does it get better? 3 upvotes · 24 comments
What's your wedding* pricing structure? r/WeddingPhotography • 1y ago What's your wedding* pricing structure? 4 upvotes · 26 comments Looking for advice on pricing, marketing and
customer experience improvements r/WeddingPhotography • 1mo ago Looking for advice on pricing, marketing and customer experience improvements 9 upvotes · 35 comments Unpopular
opinion: Not all wedding clients are worth pursuing – especially when you're just starting out. r/WeddingPhotography • 10mo ago Unpopular opinion: Not all wedding clients are worth
pursuing – especially when you're just starting out. 101 upvotes · 22 comments Care package for wedding photographer r/WeddingPhotography • 9y ago Care package for wedding
photographer 35 upvotes · 28 comments What is your process right after booking a new wedding client? r/WeddingPhotography • 4y ago What is your process right after booking a new
wedding client? 9 upvotes · 21 comments View Post in Português (Brasil) Français हिन्दी 简体中文 Tiếng Việt Русский See more Community Info Section r/WeddingPhotography Join Wedding
photography This is the home of the wedding photographer community on Reddit and the place for wedding photographers, second photographers, assistants, and those aspiring to be
wedding photographers. This is a discussion based community and the place to share experiences, business insight, creative ideas about our work, and more. Show more Public Top
Posts Reddit reReddit: Top posts of September 19, 2023 Reddit reReddit: Top posts of September 2023 Reddit reReddit: Top posts of 2023 Reddit Rules Privacy Policy User Agreement
Your Privacy Choices Accessibility Reddit, Inc. © 2026. All rights reserved. Collapse Navigation Skip to main content Client said I am expensive : r/AskPhotography r/AskPhotography
Search in r/AskPhotography Get App Log In Expand user menu Skip to NavigationSkip to Right Sidebar Back Go to AskPhotography r/AskPhotography • 3y ago erymartorres17 Client said I
am expensive r/AskPhotography - My pricing My pricing Page 1 (Current page) Page 2 Item 1 of 2 Hey guys, I like to share some information and I want to know if I did something
wrong in my pricing. The client consult to me and I provided them the rates whish is HK$3,300 (thats like $450 USD) 1st photo. She responded hours and said my rate was expensive.
She also compared my pricing to other local photographer which leads me to if I did something wrong with my pricing. 2nd photo was pricing from local she compared: It is HK$980/hr
(thats like $130 USD) and list of inclusion. My inclusion of the family session are 1 main photographer 2 hrs shoot 1 location and outfit change Unlimited shoot (approx. 100+
edited high res jpeg) Online gallery for photo delivery I even include add-ons if they want 10 x 15 photoalbum leatherette / fabric 20 pages 16 x 24 frameless canvas Any advise
from pros, much appreciated. Archived post. New comments cannot be posted and votes cannot be cast. Upvote 39 Downvote 55 Go to comments Share u/OpenAI avatar OpenAI • Promoted
Ready to build your next project? Start now with Codex, available with ChatGPT. Sign Up chatgpt.com Thumbnail image: Ready to build your next project? Start now with Codex,
available with ChatGPT. Sort by: Best Search Comments Expand comment search Comments Section CJ-CJ-CJ-CJ • 3y ago I was reading replies and thought how in the f*** is $3300 USD a
good price!!!?? Lol. u/erymartorres17 avatar erymartorres17 OP • 3y ago Its HKD 3300 thats $420 USD 🤣 Knato • 3y ago Love the 420 part. 1 more reply ras2101 • 3y ago Man I’m glad
you said that, I was thinking my wedding 8+ hours was 1300 less than this 😂 Edited: just realized you actually posted all that information where I didn’t read lol [deleted] • 3y
ago Sounds like they cannot afford your services u/erymartorres17 avatar erymartorres17 OP • 3y ago Yes. She mention she cannot afford my rate and she send me right away other
photographer rate to compare [deleted] • 3y ago I promise if you lower your rates for this person she will be a nightmare. If she wants to hire you but can’t afford it... well
that’s too bad for her. 1 more reply LeicaM6guy • 3y ago "Thank you for your interest. At this time my prices are set based off several factors, and I am not looking to lower them.
There are several competent photographers on the list you forwarded me who may be more in line with your budget. If you have any questions, please feel free to reach out." 1 more
reply [deleted] • 3y ago themanlnthesuit • 3y ago She is not your client. Clients can afford your services and she can’t. u/UtileDulci12 avatar UtileDulci12 • 3y ago You offer
something the other photographer doesn't offer. Why would she complain about difference in ratings and not just go to your compeditor? She wants you but at the rates of your
compeditor. If she wants you she pays your prices. u/erymartorres17 avatar erymartorres17 OP • 3y ago You are right. She even mention that we had the same service which is not.
u/SamsungUS avatar u/SamsungUS • Promoted Easy to install, even next to a wall. Upgrade to Samsung Bespoke Fridges with Zero Clearance Fit. Learn More samsung.com Thumbnail image:
Easy to install, even next to a wall. Upgrade to Samsung Bespoke Fridges with Zero Clearance Fit. SLPERAS • 3y ago Depends on what the rates in your local market is. $400 usd isn’t
expensive for where I live, but may be it is for where you live. I don’t know. The best thing to do is look at your competition and take a look at their pricing to see where you
fit in u/magiccitybhm avatar magiccitybhm • 3y ago LOL ... "All files in jpg" So this alleged other quote is giving the client ALL of the images? I somehow doubt that. Do you know
who this other photographer is? I wonder if they have their rates posted to confirm her "quote." u/erymartorres17 avatar erymartorres17 OP • 3y ago I check the other photographer
but there is no website and no rates posted. There photo was nice though u/magiccitybhm avatar magiccitybhm • 3y ago So their photographs are just on social media? 2 more replies
Past_Entrepreneur658 • 3y ago You already invested too much time in this situation. A couple of sentence email or text and move on. Never lower your rates. wsb3237 • 3y ago Your
pricing seems more then fair. I would consider that perhaps she just isn’t your target audience. I wouldn’t change your price but instead find a way to market to the people who can
afford that. 2 more replies [deleted] • 3y ago If she wants to use another photographer, let her. People who fuss about pricing are going to fuss about everything else. She’ll be
unhappy with the services, the editing, the prints. Everything. Do yourself a favor and let her go if she doesn’t want to pay your pricing. u/Showerthawts avatar Showerthawts • 3y
ago "Thank you, I hope you get great pictures with them. Good day." u/TinfoilCamera avatar TinfoilCamera Cake icon • 3y ago Client said I am expensive "Client" ? You keep using
that word... I do not think it means what you think it means. Any advise from pros, much appreciated Window Shopper: "You're too expensive!" You: "I'm sorry you feel that way.
Thank you for considering me and have a nice day!" That's it. You do not need to apologize nor justify yourself to anyone. If they can't afford you they can't afford you - no big
deal. I cannot afford Annie Leibovitz's six figure day rates. That's not Annie's fault - nor do you need to adjust your rates based upon what some other photographer is doing.
There will ALWAYS be someone offering services at a cheaper rate than you. That's normal - and you should not feel compelled to compete with them. 1 more reply RevTurk • 3y ago
It's pretty hard to judge your prices, I don't know what the cost of living is like in HK €450 sounds reasonable to me, I'm based in Ireland, the only quotes I've seen for
photography are for weddings and everyone wants at least €2500 for a basic wedding. You can only go on what other photographers are charging and seeing if that covers your costs
with some profit left over. Do not just go lower than everyone else. As much as people cry about prices and want them lowered they also don't want shit, they want the good stuff at
a lower price. So if you go in with the lowest price people will think your the worst photographer and you won't be able to discount your way out of that position. Also put a limit
on the amount of photos your going to provide. People will nail you over things like that. As your new your not used to people like these. They are in every industry, they are just
assholes and you should do nothing to appease them, they will show you no gratitude and will in fact just look for ways to use your kindness against you, so the kinder you are the
more ammunition you'll be giving them. Give them your price, if they don't like it that's fine, let them go somewhere else. Do not waste time on people like this. 3 more replies
u/deeper-diver avatar deeper-diver • 3y ago Tell her to hire the other one then. That this person is not doing that and using their rate to re-negotiate yours is a huge red flag.
nerfherder183 • 3y ago This is like walking into a Mercedes dealer and saying “but the Chevy costs…..” [deleted] • 3y ago Stick to your prices or try and add something small for
free to sweeten the deal but I agree with others not to lower your price. Also the other ad says “1 x chief photographer” which leads me to believe that client won’t even know who
is coming to do the actual shoot. Big red flag there and something you can say to justify your price. New to Reddit? Create your account and connect with a world of communities.
Continue With Phone Number By continuing, you agree to our User Agreement and acknowledge that you understand the Privacy Policy. Related Answers Section Related Answers Best
lenses for portrait photography Choosing the best lens for portrait photography depends on your camera system, desired aesthetic, and budget, with Redditors frequently recommending
85mm, 50mm, and 70-200mm f/2.8 lenses for their versatility and ability to produce flattering results. Popular Focal Lengths for Portraits 85mm lenses are widely considered ideal
for traditional portraits due to their flattering compression and ability to create beautiful background blur. "85mm to me is the ideal portrait length." 50mm lenses are praised
for their versatility, offering a natural perspective that closely matches human vision and performing well for both headshots and wider environmental portraits. "My favorite
portrait length for most of my work, but I like shooting a lot looser… full body, or horizontal frame waist up." 70-200mm f/2.8 zoom lenses are a highly recommended workhorse,
providing excellent versatility for various portrait distances and offering impressive background separation. "To be honest, and I know it is heavy: the 70-200mm f/2.8 with
stabilizing. Versatile, great bokeh, great background separation. Absolutely stunning." Key Considerations for Lens Selection Aperture Size (f-stop): A wide aperture (e.g., f/1.2,
f/1.4, f/1.8, f/2.8) is crucial for achieving the sought-after bokeh effect, blurring the background to make the subject stand out. "If you want bokeh, you'll need the aperture of
f1.4 / 1.8." Prime vs. Zoom Lenses: Prime lenses (fixed focal length) often offer superior image quality and wider apertures at a lower cost, while zoom lenses provide flexibility
in framing without changing lenses. "Prime with low aperture. 35mm or 50mm usually, I prefer shorter focal lengths" Sensor Size: The camera's sensor size impacts the effective
focal length and depth of field. "To talk about a focal length without mentioning the sensor size is misleading." Advanced and Specialty Lenses 105mm and 135mm lenses are also
popular choices for portraits, especially for tighter headshots, offering distinct compression and bokeh characteristics. "85mm, 105mm, 135mm and 200mm would be most used portrait
lens." Sigma and Viltrox produce well-regarded and often more affordable prime lenses that deliver excellent image quality for portraiture. "The Sigma 56mm f/1.4 is a great
portrait lens." Are you looking for lens recommendations for a specific camera brand or type? See Answer Tips for shooting in low light conditions How to choose the right camera
for beginners Essential gear for landscape photography Creative techniques for macro photography More posts you may like Retreat Guru Costa Rica Ayahuasca: would you pay by Zelle?
Should I even trust this situation? Thx r/Ayahuasca • 4y ago Retreat Guru Costa Rica Ayahuasca: would you pay by Zelle? Should I even trust this situation? Thx 4 upvotes · 12
comments So the first picture is what I wanted…. The other pictures is what 1300$ 15 hrs of my time, got me. Along with running my hair and scalp. r/Ulta • 4y ago So the first
picture is what I wanted…. The other pictures is what 1300$ 15 hrs of my time, got me. Along with running my hair and scalp. r/Ulta - So the first picture is what I wanted…. The
other pictures is what 1300$ 15 hrs of my time, got me. Along with running my hair and scalp. 7 72 upvotes · 53 comments u/BigFig-Mattress avatar BigFig-Mattress • Promoted Big Fig
is a mattress built specifically for bigger bodies, with stronger support that actually holds up. Thumbnail image: Big Fig is a mattress built specifically for bigger bodies, with
stronger support that actually holds up. bigfigmattress.com Shop Now I offered 10pc less and told me that I'm crazy r/HousingUK • 4y ago I offered 10pc less and told me that I'm
crazy 51 upvotes · 134 comments My first Instacart in-shop delivery story. Hopefully someone can learn from me, and others can teach me. r/InstacartShoppers • 4y ago My first
Instacart in-shop delivery story. Hopefully someone can learn from me, and others can teach me. 40 upvotes · 64 comments Entitled Starter-Owner wants me to design for them for free
r/graphic_design • 3y ago Entitled Starter-Owner wants me to design for them for free 4 upvotes · 15 comments What a way to spend money. r/Sino • 2mo ago What a way to spend money.
r/Sino - What a way to spend money. 0:18 120 upvotes · 10 comments Is this worth 8k? r/MiataNC • 1mo ago Is this worth 8k? r/MiataNC - Is this worth 8k? 5 51 upvotes · 53 comments
Can you believe this uncultured swine? r/doordash • 3y ago Can you believe this uncultured swine? r/doordash - Can you believe this uncultured swine? 42 upvotes · 47 comments No
clients. PLEASE help. r/Estheticians • 1mo ago No clients. PLEASE help. 34 upvotes · 60 comments Wondering about value, worried I might have overpaid r/beetle • 2mo ago Wondering
about value, worried I might have overpaid r/beetle - Wondering about value, worried I might have overpaid 4 289 upvotes · 89 comments Commissions. r/BitchEatingCrafters • 3y ago
Commissions. 94 upvotes · 20 comments lol y'all told me my card was worth $500 I sold it for $360 and someone posted it for $5000 and it has 11 watchers....im sick r/baseballcards
• 3y ago lol y'all told me my card was worth $500 I sold it for $360 and someone posted it for $5000 and it has 11 watchers....im sick r/baseballcards - lol y'all told me my card
was worth $500 I sold it for $360 and someone posted it for $5000 and it has 11 watchers....im sick 41 comments I'm not paying for parts! r/redneckengineering • 3mo ago I'm not
paying for parts! r/redneckengineering - I'm not paying for parts! 2 116 upvotes · 8 comments How much would you guys charge for this? This is the 1st time someone has asked for
this. r/RealEstatePhotography • 3mo ago How much would you guys charge for this? This is the 1st time someone has asked for this. r/RealEstatePhotography - How much would you guys
charge for this? This is the 1st time someone has asked for this. 44 upvotes · 110 comments Price Complaints Make Me Cringe r/spx6900 • 4mo ago Price Complaints Make Me Cringe 44
upvotes · 33 comments Pricing Advice r/1stGenTundras • 6d ago Pricing Advice r/1stGenTundras - Pricing Advice 5 39 upvotes · 38 comments Price question r/Techdeck • 22d ago Price
question r/Techdeck - Price question 2 32 upvotes · 6 comments Can I get an honest price? r/FenderStratocaster • 2mo ago Can I get an honest price? r/FenderStratocaster - Can I get
an honest price? 4 53 upvotes · 41 comments What can I do to get the delivery drivers to actually deliver my packages? I'm trying not to be a Karen, but it seems intentional at
this point. Advice from drivers former or current? r/UPS • 3y ago What can I do to get the delivery drivers to actually deliver my packages? I'm trying not to be a Karen, but it
seems intentional at this point. Advice from drivers former or current? 21 comments When your customer only offers the lowest possible price. r/blendermemes • 2mo ago When your
customer only offers the lowest possible price. r/blendermemes - When your customer only offers the lowest possible price. 4 120 upvotes · 14 comments Did I overpay for this?
r/Speedsoft • 3mo ago Did I overpay for this? r/Speedsoft - Did I overpay for this? 57 upvotes · 34 comments How much should I pay? r/MiataND • 2mo ago How much should I pay?
r/MiataND - How much should I pay? 43 upvotes · 46 comments Did I overpay? $10k r/ToyotaPickup • 2mo ago Did I overpay? $10k r/ToyotaPickup - Did I overpay? $10k 297 upvotes · 92
comments Client refuses to use services they are paying for. r/msp • 3mo ago Client refuses to use services they are paying for. 63 upvotes · 73 comments I need advice. How would
you price it? r/Woodcarving • 5mo ago I need advice. How would you price it? r/Woodcarving - I need advice. How would you price it? 3 332 upvotes · 36 comments View Post in
Français 繁體中文 Tiếng Việt हिन्दी See more Community Info Section r/AskPhotography Join Photography community ready to help. Whether you're a seasoned professional or just starting
out, this subreddit is the perfect place to ask questions, seek advice, and engage in discussions about all things photography. We're here to foster a supportive and knowledgeable
community that shares a passion for capturing the world through the lens. If you're new to photography or have a burning question, don't hesitate to make a post! Our community is
filled with experienced photographers who are eager to help. Show more Public Top Posts Reddit reReddit: Top posts of January 5, 2023 Reddit reReddit: Top posts of January 2023
Reddit reReddit: Top posts of 2023 Reddit Rules Privacy Policy User Agreement Your Privacy Choices Accessibility Reddit, Inc. © 2026. All rights reserved. Collapse Navigation Skip
to main content I am looking for reasons why you as a photographer don't "just give the clients all the photos." : r/photography r/photography Search in r/photography Get App Log
In Expand user menu Skip to NavigationSkip to Right Sidebar Back Go to photography r/photography • 6y ago unset1984 I am looking for reasons why you as a photographer don't "just
give the clients all the photos." Business My business partner feels I should give my clients all the photos for a fee. For reference, I give clients a proof gallery of images from
a shoot, culling any I am not happy with. They can then select images which I will edit for my fee and I send them the hi-res edit. I don't release unedited work. Should I? Is this
a missed opportunity for revenue, or am I right to maintain my brand by only releasing edits? Archived post. New comments cannot be posted and votes cannot be cast. Upvote 606
Downvote 255 Go to comments Share u/hiscox_insurance avatar hiscox_insurance • Promoted From consultants to janitors, hair stylists to yoga teachers, we’ve got you covered. Small
business insurance from $22.50/month.* Get a Quote hiscox.com Clickable image which will reveal the video player: From consultants to janitors, hair stylists to yoga teachers,
we’ve got you covered. Small business insurance from $22.50/month.* Collapse video player 0:00 / 0:00 Sort by: Best Comments Section 1096bimu • 6y ago Because bad photos make me
look bad Upvote 1.4K Downvote Award Share u/LacksMass avatar LacksMass • 6y ago It's rare, but there have been instances where releasing throw away photos has lead to legal
problems. If a client can show a gallery of bad photos to a court as a representative sample of your work, they can attempt to make a claim that you have misrepresented yourself as
a professional and refuse to pay. Once again, it's rare, but it has happened. Only release work that you want representing you. [deleted] • 6y ago Just curious where you’ve read
this to have happened? Unfortunately, saying that art is bad, even when it is, is so subjective. I don’t see how a court would be able to rule in favor of someone seeking to
recover or withhold a payment for a service with that being the excuse. Saying you’re a professional is only saying that you’ve been paid or are being paid for your services when
it comes to art. Having a degree or a portfolio isn’t automatically stating that you’re a professional. Studied law and I don’t think this would jive unless a contractual agreement
wasn’t upheld (i.e., a guarantee of 500 edited photos but you only send 300). 27 more replies 1 more reply u/stroiman avatar stroiman • 6y ago • Edited 6y ago And if the client
shows the bad photos to other potential clients, they might think that I'm a poor photographer and hire somebody else. I saw a video with Peter Hurley (I'm pretty sure it was him),
where he says that he would never give out the raw files to a client. If the client did a horrible retouching job and showcased it as a Peter Hurley shot, that would really make
him look bad. u/ILikeLenexa avatar ILikeLenexa • 6y ago I'm pretty sure I've seen the clip you're talking about, and that's not exactly what he said. In fact, he does say you can
buy out his images and he doesn't do his own re-touch work. He does tell a story though where there's a high school on the phone that can't afford him, but there's a HeadshotsTM
franchise or whatever near them and the person was enthusiastic about hiring them through most of their album, but from just one bad photo in the portfolio, she decided not to. So,
he's a big proponent of not having garbage in there. 1 more reply u/TheMariannWilliamson avatar TheMariannWilliamson • 6y ago • Edited 6y ago Exactly. Your client will not be
editing the photos like you do, both in what you intend the photo to convey and (if we're being honest) even if they could match your look or intent, they're not going to be as
good at it as you are. And when those differences eventually matter, do we honestly think they'll say "well actually that's on me, not the photographer, because I based this on a
RAW they gave me and it's not actually representative of their work as a photographer"? Nah. They're gonna blame the photographer. Not saying you should never sent all filed in
every circumstance, or that it will always go wrong, but that if you do, you better be getting a HEFTY fee to mitigate all that risk, and be educating your client that what they're
getting is a lot of raw, unfinished files that don't represent the finished work they'd otherwise be paying for. And even with that disclaimer and education, you still risk them
misunderstanding what they're getting and blaming you for anything they consider subpar, and them using that work and having it be attached to your name. 7 more replies [deleted] •
6y ago u/DJ-EZCheese avatar DJ-EZCheese • 6y ago Every exposure I make is not intended to be a finished photo. There are test shots, experiments, duplicates, and mistakes on the
part of everyone involved. When I was a cook I didn't serve the pastry on the edge of the pan that burned. My musician friends don't release the recordings with mistakes. Writers
don't release unedited notes and rough drafts. The creative process is messy. u/stockadobe avatar u/stockadobe • Promoted Edit faster than ever with a new collection of powerful AI
tools. Learn More stock.adobe.com Thumbnail image: Edit faster than ever with a new collection of powerful AI tools. ncphoto919 • 6y ago Because bad photos don't help anyone.
[deleted] • 6y ago u/jaysanw avatar jaysanw • 6y ago Releasing only finished edits is a quality control to protect your brand, should you as a professional care about such a
standard. Straight-from-camera proofs are a menu for your client to order from. They should not be representative of your product as such, and do not deserve to be released into
'the public realm'. It's that simple. 2 more replies u/PhotoGenerous avatar PhotoGenerous • 6y ago • Edited 6y ago While the overwhelming sentiment on reddit is to never for any
reason do so, some people do release all photos. Some release at a price. Another issue is the reason this question exists at all. Other people don't know the reasons. Other people
don't know what they're asking for. It might not be a matter of giving or not giving, but how to communicate that decision. (Which is also what you're asking in way.) From the
other perspective, we're saying, "You don't want those photos, trust us," or "Those photos don't match my artistic integrity." For the first, from the perspective of a client,
blind trust isn't a satisfying answer all the time. I wonder if having a sample to show them rather than tell them might be useful. Here is an example of a delivered photo from a
previous shoot. Here are the surrounding undelivered photos. Seeing what we're talking about might help. It's all the more highlighted when a photo had a good bit of editing. For
the second, if I was a client, and we're talking about my wedding photos and not just a family portrait session, I want those photos. What might not match the photographer's
artistic vision is overridden by my desire to have an incredible expression captured from a loved one regardless of some elements not being perfect. Who knows, maybe I want to make
a collage taken from good and bad photos because there are good elements in the bad photos. But that also means I might be willing to pay more money to get those other photos. (I
as a theoretical client. Speaking of me specifically, I definitely would be willing to pay a bit more, depending on the price.) Regardless, having your business partner comfortable
with the decision is important. You guys need to be on the same page. You need to convince him, so you both comfortably present your approach to clients since it sounds like your
partner has been asked this question and isn't comfortable present your reason as a partnership. So maybe showing him examples first, that he can get behind the decision is
something to do. You have to get him to believe and support the decision and not just parrot your/our words. Personally, since I know there are photos that I've given that clients
adore above other I thought were fantastic, I know there are also photos that I don't give that they would probabaly love and when I think about this when I'm culling. I'm not 100%
against giving the photos because of that, although I've felt the hesitation when asked and only have done it once. I might just have to follow my own advice. 1 more reply issafly
• 6y ago They're not paying you for a product (ie, all your photos). They're paying you for the services of taking the photos and delivering professionally edited images that they
can use. u/AxonbyAppLovin avatar u/AxonbyAppLovin • Promoted Profitable advertising made simple Reach 1B+ Shoppers Across Mobile Apps Profitable advertising made simple Profitable
advertising made simple Profitable advertising made simple Profitable advertising made simple Profitable advertising made simple axon.ai Learn More u/spartyfan1 avatar spartyfan1 •
6y ago Don't let money and greed drive your business/reputation. Reputation is big when it comes to art and photography. If you give a client 20 dope edited photos then 100
non-edited photos, what will they see most of when they flip through their folder of images you provided. Perception could be that you took 100 bad photos and only 20 came out
"good." Perception can be built as to why should someone pay you for 100 photos if only 20 are good. u/Malenkie avatar Malenkie • 6y ago Should artists just display all of their
experiments and rough sketches? Should musicians just put every idea they have onto an album? No, any creative endeavour has a process of choosing the best. Also your business
partner clearly doesn't understand how photography works if they think every photograph is a keeper. If you ever have a reason to 'just give all the photos', at least double your
fee for it. u/aelios avatar aelios • 6y ago I remember Polito and how 1 couple absolutely destroyed her business. I would make it cost prohibitive and require an addendum on the
contract stipulating they understand it is unfinished/incomplete, not representative of your work, not to released/published/etc with your name on them or any association to you or
your business, with financial penalties for failure to comply, and nothing turned over until all debts are paid. Would also have the addendum have more strict terms so that if they
choose to accept the photos, any issues that arise from any photos, finished or no, will be decided by arbitration with your choice of arbitrator, at their expense with normal
billing rates to accrue for all time spent resolving the issue. If they attempt to subvert the contract, attempt a trial by social media, or actively harm the business, penalty
immediately owed equal to 3 years of prior business income, or 3 years of customers income, whichever is greater. If found at fault, any judgement is not to exceed total amount
billed for the work, with all work returned, including removal (at their expense) of all work from all social media, with failure to do so voiding any money owed via arbitration.
If bridezilla wants all the photos, she can have them, at 10x the going rate, and I don't want to be associated with whatever she does with them. Not going to be on the hook for
the entire wedding. Not going to watch the business go up in smoke. Not going to try and fight a PR battle with someone who thinks they have nothing to lose by trashing others. No
idea how enforceable any of this is, as I stick with animals and plants, just for fun. u/eccegallo avatar eccegallo • 6y ago This is what make sense. Price it so ridiculously that
they walk away, and if they still don't at least you've made a hefty gain. 5 more replies u/HelpfulCherry avatar HelpfulCherry • 6y ago Because most of my photos are shit. No,
really. I publish maybe 5% of what I shoot. Part of my skill is knowing what to keep and what to toss. u/asdfmatt avatar asdfmatt • 6y ago On commercial shoots on which I've been a
part (as client) this is how it goes down: Photographer behind camera. Camera pipes images onto iPad that art director is holding. Art Director and Photographer take dozens of
shots with Art Director giving input to Photog. Art Director shows Client iPad and "this is where we are now". Client (me) goes - "product needs to be more visible/looks good/that
bit of hair is a little distracting/make it pop more". Then, somewhere along the line the Producer might need to step in and say "that's as good as we can get, we need to move on
or we're not going to get to the whole shot list today" or "we're losing light we need to move on" Lather, rinse, repeat, until Client goes "yes that one" - they flag the photo and
