your thoughts for how this look is achieved? r/AskPhotography - What are your thoughts for how this look is achieved? 4 2.1K upvotes · 127 comments Client requested ownership of
photos. I’m confused. What would you do? r/AskPhotography • 9mo ago Client requested ownership of photos. I’m confused. What would you do? 67 upvotes · 68 comments Any advice for a
beginner trying to find their style? r/AskPhotography • 3mo ago Any advice for a beginner trying to find their style? r/AskPhotography - Any advice for a beginner trying to find
their style? 6 148 upvotes · 60 comments How to start my photography journey? r/AskPhotography • 2mo ago How to start my photography journey? r/AskPhotography - How to start my
photography journey? 3 8 upvotes · 12 comments Want More UGC Videos? Here Are 10 Winning Strategies to Get Your Customers Creating! r/Feedspace • 10mo ago Want More UGC Videos?
Here Are 10 Winning Strategies to Get Your Customers Creating! 9 upvotes · 2 comments Should i start using post processing? r/AskPhotography • 8d ago Should i start using post
processing? r/AskPhotography - Should i start using post processing? 8 172 upvotes · 87 comments Is there a platform or community where i can get feedback on photos?
r/AskPhotography • 3mo ago Is there a platform or community where i can get feedback on photos? 4 upvotes · 26 comments What are your recommendations for editing pictures?
r/AskPhotography • 5d ago What are your recommendations for editing pictures? r/AskPhotography - What are your recommendations for editing pictures? 4 4 upvotes · 14 comments Are
staffing firms safe to work with ? r/recruitinghell • 1y ago Are staffing firms safe to work with ? 1 upvote · 6 comments Please help , Need A GHL Expert advice for Landscapes &
Contractors Lead Gen r/gohighlevel • 10mo ago Please help , Need A GHL Expert advice for Landscapes & Contractors Lead Gen 4 upvotes · 4 comments how do i take photos like this?
r/AskPhotography • 2mo ago how do i take photos like this? r/AskPhotography - how do i take photos like this? 6 211 upvotes · 64 comments (UK) My experience with Sage Solutions
(MLM-style “opportunity”) – please read before joining r/mlmscams • 8mo ago (UK) My experience with Sage Solutions (MLM-style “opportunity”) – please read before joining 12 upvotes
· 7 comments View Post in हिन्दी Français Português (Brasil) See more Community Info Section r/AskPhotography Join Photography community ready to help. Whether you're a seasoned
professional or just starting out, this subreddit is the perfect place to ask questions, seek advice, and engage in discussions about all things photography. We're here to foster a
supportive and knowledgeable community that shares a passion for capturing the world through the lens. If you're new to photography or have a burning question, don't hesitate to
make a post! Our community is filled with experienced photographers who are eager to help. Show more Public Top Posts Reddit reReddit: Top posts of September 17, 2025 Reddit
reReddit: Top posts of September 2025 Reddit reReddit: Top posts of 2025 Reddit Rules Privacy Policy User Agreement Your Privacy Choices Accessibility Reddit, Inc. © 2026. All
rights reserved. Collapse Navigation Skip to main content Why do so many good photographers still struggle to get bookings? : r/AskPhotography r/AskPhotography Search in
r/AskPhotography Get App Log In Expand user menu Skip to NavigationSkip to Right Sidebar Back Go to AskPhotography r/AskPhotography • 1d ago ExtremelyCool64 Why do so many good
photographers still struggle to get bookings? Business/Pricing I’ve been noticing something lately and I’m curious if other photographers see it too. There are photographers doing
genuinely good work who still struggle getting booked consistently. Not bad photographers either. Some are honestly better shooters than people staying fully booked. Feels like
sometimes clients just don’t immediately understand what the photographer actually does or who they’re for. Have you run into this yourself? If things improved at some point, what
actually changed? Upvote 11 Downvote 101 Go to comments Share u/canonusa avatar canonusa • Promoted Unleash your creativity with Canon mirrorless cameras and RF lenses. Shop Now.
Shop Now usa.canon.com Thumbnail image: Unleash your creativity with Canon mirrorless cameras and RF lenses. Shop Now. Join the conversation Sort by: Best Search Comments Expand
comment search Comments Section dwphotoshop • 1d ago Running a photo business is more about business than it is about photos. I’m bad at both. 😎 u/ExtremelyCool64 avatar
ExtremelyCool64 OP • 1d ago Honestly I think half the photography industry is running on caffeine and imposter syndrome. u/Btewks-Mamyia-220 avatar Btewks-Mamyia-220 • 1d ago
That’s an excellent explanation. u/longjumpingtote avatar longjumpingtote • 1d ago Profile Badge for the Achievement Top 1% Commenter Top 1% Commenter If there were more gigs than
photographers, everyone would have work, and would get paid really well. We have the opposite, way more photographers than there are gigs. 1 more reply u/Btewks-Mamyia-220 avatar
Btewks-Mamyia-220 • 1d ago That is so true, you have to be as good at the business side if not better! 1 more reply Putrid_Prior_280 • 23h ago I would even dare say photography
matters very little when it comes to running a photo business. 1 more reply u/Direct_Taste_3844 avatar Direct_Taste_3844 • 1d ago • Edited 8h ago The simple fact is that there
simply isn't enough work out there that requires a professional photographer anymore. The gap between amateur and professional has narrowed significantly. Many of the clients who
25 years ago would have only been able to get the standard of photos they required from a pro are now more than happy with what an amateur with a camera can produce. What they
produce won't be as good but 9 times out of 10 it's "good enough" and not costing the client any money. u/ExtremelyCool64 avatar ExtremelyCool64 OP • 1d ago Yeah I think
expectations shifted almost as much as technology did. A lot of people used to hire photographers because they literally couldn’t make usable images themselves. u/Direct_Taste_3844
avatar Direct_Taste_3844 • 1d ago Exactly, even for corporate photo work now most businesses are perfectly happy using phone photos and stock images. Bands are mostly just
publishing their own phone photos on their socials and the photo pit at gigs is usually people taking photos for no pay just so they can see the gig for free. donatedknowledge • 1d
ago Marketing. My photos are slightly above average at best, but I did 230 family photoshoots last year and have been consistent over 6 years. It's a business and you need to run
it that way. Make yourself likable, get reviews, get references through others and work your legs off. Make booking easy, make sure people can find you, figure out what draws
people. My clients love discounts, so I offer those. Book now and get 50% off. Just make sure your margins are right. u/ExtremelyCool64 avatar ExtremelyCool64 OP • 1d ago Honestly
there’s probably a lot of photographers with technically stronger work who never learn the people/business side well enough to stay busy consistently. 5 more replies CoffeeDetail •
1d ago The person taking the photos is as important if not more important than the photos. Branding and photo experience will grow the business. u/ExtremelyCool64 avatar
ExtremelyCool64 OP • 1d ago Honestly personality and trust probably matter more than photographers like admitting sometimes. Icy-Maintenance7041 • 1d ago True. I am (or was) a
bussiness and product photog untill a few years back. A few of my clients demanded i do their weddings because they trusted me to respect their privacy and because (their words)
they knew i they could count on me when it matters. I never did, save for one, and always referred them to a wedding photog, but that tought me the bond between a photog and client
has less to do with the quality of work then with to soft skills involved. Doesnt mean you can get away with shit photo's or dont have to know how to make deliverables work for the
client tho. 3 more replies 1 more reply GodHatesColdplay • 1d ago Largely because you are competing with people who will do it for free. The barrier to entry is very low so
everybody is a photographer u/longjumpingtote avatar longjumpingtote • 1d ago Profile Badge for the Achievement Top 1% Commenter Top 1% Commenter There are a ton of people who play
guitar really well, but way, way more than there are gigs/bands/concerts willing to hire them. u/Btewks-Mamyia-220 avatar Btewks-Mamyia-220 • 1d ago I phone 📱 photography, right up
there with video killing the radio star ⭐️ 4 more replies u/cryingcubone avatar cryingcubone • 1d ago I think people forgot it's still a business and marketing your self matters. A
good example two weddings. An older couple getting married, possibly on their second marriage, usually has grown kids already. Most people in that older age group have fewer major
life events happening around them, so the need for photographers at those events is slimmer. Compared to a younger couple's wedding, their friend group is often still going through
major life events like weddings, babies being born, engagements, and growing families, which creates more ongoing opportunities for photographers. So you do a good job at both word
of mouth is the name of the game. So picking the younger couple wedding would possibly benefit you more. Not saying you shouldn't do the older person wedding. But i think
understanding who's at these type events help get your name out there. 2 more replies u/ShakeAndBakeThatCake avatar ShakeAndBakeThatCake • 1d ago Must depend on area too. If youre
in an area with lots of events, weddings, etc its not too hard to get work. Overall though the economy isnt doing well and I think people are cutting back on getting professional
pictures taken. The pictures I take with my nikon z8 and f2.8 lens is way beyond what an iphone can produce still but most people are ok with iphone pictures too. And in good
outside lighting iphone pics can look good. u/ExtremelyCool64 avatar ExtremelyCool64 OP • 1d ago The “most people are ok with phone pictures now” part is probably the real shift.
u/ShakeAndBakeThatCake avatar ShakeAndBakeThatCake • 1d ago Yeah i agree that is a big part of it. As a photographer I can still easily spot the differences between phone pics and
tvose with professional gear but your average consumer doesnt care and most people dont want to spend the extra money on professional pics. u/AdaptiBarMBE avatar u/AdaptiBarMBE •
Promoted Now Available: New AdaptiBar MCQ Simulator + Writing Guide Bundles featuring real MBE questions, expert tips, and structured writing guidance. Shop Now pages.barbri.com
Thumbnail image: Now Available: New AdaptiBar MCQ Simulator + Writing Guide Bundles featuring real MBE questions, expert tips, and structured writing guidance. Dhoni_7318 • 1d ago
clients don’t always judge “best photo”, they go with who feels easiest to trust and understand. Simple website, clear packages, quick replies, that stuff matters more than we like
to admit. u/ExtremelyCool64 avatar ExtremelyCool64 OP • 1d ago Honestly quick replies alone probably book more work than photographers want to admit. 1 more reply u/hdelared avatar
hdelared • 1d ago It's a market like so many others. You need to provide what is in demand and offer added value. Many other creative professions have the same issue, ask
illustrators, designers, cartoonists... 1 more reply msdesignfoto • 1d ago The hype is real. True customer support is not. Most people fail to realize that too late, tough. Its a
marketing issue. Photographers who have their clientbase set up, or who have the contacts to be always on the move, don't have issues with getting jobs. Others, if they fail a post
or opportunity, its almost a shoot in the foot. Then there's people complaining about their photographers ghosting them or not doing their job right. Everyday I know of something
new. And today, every joe with a camera calls themselves a photographer. I've done a few portraits with 2 guys who practice airsoft. They were awesome subjects to shoot with, all
geared up, fancy scenarios, I really like those shootings. Then they started to ask me less and less to shoot them for their gear patrons as they always would. Recently I saw both
of them turned to photography. One with an Instagram image advertising to shoot events and weddings? I was like WTF dudes? You barely know the basic parameters and already are
calling yourselves a photographer? Right... New to Reddit? Create your account and connect with a world of communities. Continue With Phone Number By continuing, you agree to our
User Agreement and acknowledge that you understand the Privacy Policy. Related Answers Section Related Answers Best lenses for portrait photography Choosing the best lens for
portrait photography depends on your camera system, desired aesthetic, and budget, with Redditors frequently recommending 85mm, 50mm, and 70-200mm f/2.8 lenses for their
versatility and ability to produce flattering results. Popular Focal Lengths for Portraits 85mm lenses are widely considered ideal for traditional portraits due to their flattering
compression and ability to create beautiful background blur. "85mm to me is the ideal portrait length." 50mm lenses are praised for their versatility, offering a natural
perspective that closely matches human vision and performing well for both headshots and wider environmental portraits. "My favorite portrait length for most of my work, but I like
shooting a lot looser… full body, or horizontal frame waist up." 70-200mm f/2.8 zoom lenses are a highly recommended workhorse, providing excellent versatility for various portrait
distances and offering impressive background separation. "To be honest, and I know it is heavy: the 70-200mm f/2.8 with stabilizing. Versatile, great bokeh, great background
separation. Absolutely stunning." Key Considerations for Lens Selection Aperture Size (f-stop): A wide aperture (e.g., f/1.2, f/1.4, f/1.8, f/2.8) is crucial for achieving the
sought-after bokeh effect, blurring the background to make the subject stand out. "If you want bokeh, you'll need the aperture of f1.4 / 1.8." Prime vs. Zoom Lenses: Prime lenses
(fixed focal length) often offer superior image quality and wider apertures at a lower cost, while zoom lenses provide flexibility in framing without changing lenses. "Prime with
low aperture. 35mm or 50mm usually, I prefer shorter focal lengths" Sensor Size: The camera's sensor size impacts the effective focal length and depth of field. "To talk about a
focal length without mentioning the sensor size is misleading." Advanced and Specialty Lenses 105mm and 135mm lenses are also popular choices for portraits, especially for tighter
headshots, offering distinct compression and bokeh characteristics. "85mm, 105mm, 135mm and 200mm would be most used portrait lens." Sigma and Viltrox produce well-regarded and
often more affordable prime lenses that deliver excellent image quality for portraiture. "The Sigma 56mm f/1.4 is a great portrait lens." Are you looking for lens recommendations
for a specific camera brand or type? See Answer Tips for shooting in low light conditions How to choose the right camera for beginners Essential gear for landscape photography
Creative techniques for macro photography More posts you may like Photographers - give me your best advice from experience? r/AskPhotography • 3mo ago Photographers - give me your
best advice from experience? 55 upvotes · 208 comments u/aaa_ace avatar aaa_ace • Promoted Something to cheer for. AAA offers auto insurance with top-notch customer service so you
can have peace of mind. Thumbnail image: Something to cheer for. AAA offers auto insurance with top-notch customer service so you can have peace of mind. ace.aaa.com Learn More Is
anyone else frustrated with the current state of photography online? r/AskPhotography • 11d ago Is anyone else frustrated with the current state of photography online? 88 upvotes ·
58 comments How do you justify your presence as a photographer? r/AskPhotography • 3mo ago How do you justify your presence as a photographer? r/AskPhotography - How do you justify
your presence as a photographer? 2.5K upvotes · 164 comments Does anyone else struggle to get into photography when you’re with other people? r/AskPhotography • 3mo ago Does anyone
else struggle to get into photography when you’re with other people? 35 upvotes · 17 comments dying to get into photography but broke? r/AskPhotography • 11d ago dying to get into
photography but broke? 62 comments Beginner photographer here, any tips for starting a photography gig? r/AskPhotography • 1mo ago Beginner photographer here, any tips for starting
a photography gig? r/AskPhotography - Beginner photographer here, any tips for starting a photography gig? 6 133 upvotes · 81 comments People that started their photography
business in the last year or so and is so far doing well, how did you do it, what are you photographing and what is your gear? r/AskPhotography • 6mo ago People that started their
photography business in the last year or so and is so far doing well, how did you do it, what are you photographing and what is your gear? 13 upvotes · 19 comments Professional
photographers: how do you make a living? r/AskPhotography • 12d ago Professional photographers: how do you make a living? 62 upvotes · 54 comments Tips for beginner photographers?
r/AskPhotography • 1mo ago Tips for beginner photographers? r/AskPhotography - Tips for beginner photographers? 74 upvotes · 15 comments Photography side income used to be easy
What still works? r/AskPhotography • 17d ago Photography side income used to be easy What still works? 19 comments Anybody here do professional photography as a side-gig?
r/AskPhotography • 4mo ago Anybody here do professional photography as a side-gig? 9 upvotes · 40 comments How to start my photography journey? r/AskPhotography • 2mo ago How to
start my photography journey? r/AskPhotography - How to start my photography journey? 3 8 upvotes · 12 comments Building a Photography Business from Scratch – Where Do I Start?
r/AskPhotography • 10mo ago Building a Photography Business from Scratch – Where Do I Start? 4 upvotes · 12 comments Photographers, do you believe photography is more talent or
practice? r/AskPhotography • 8mo ago Photographers, do you believe photography is more talent or practice? 14 upvotes · 126 comments Is it worth it to buy a camera if I'm
interested in photography? r/AskPhotography • 1mo ago Is it worth it to buy a camera if I'm interested in photography? r/AskPhotography - Is it worth it to buy a camera if I'm
interested in photography? 14 265 upvotes · 191 comments Do you all still bring your cameras to events you weren’t hired to shoot? r/AskPhotography • 4mo ago Do you all still bring
your cameras to events you weren’t hired to shoot? 45 upvotes · 124 comments Why the spike in interest in professional photography last year? r/AskPhotography • 2mo ago Why the
spike in interest in professional photography last year? r/AskPhotography - Why the spike in interest in professional photography last year? 92 upvotes · 59 comments Should i start
using post processing? r/AskPhotography • 8d ago Should i start using post processing? r/AskPhotography - Should i start using post processing? 8 172 upvotes · 87 comments Does
anyone have any ideas of how I can be charitable with my photography services? r/AskPhotography • 2mo ago Does anyone have any ideas of how I can be charitable with my photography
services? 33 upvotes · 45 comments What (other) photographers would you recommend for someone who enjoyed reviewing these pictures for inspiration? r/AskPhotography • 3mo ago What
(other) photographers would you recommend for someone who enjoyed reviewing these pictures for inspiration? r/AskPhotography - What (other) photographers would you recommend for
someone who enjoyed reviewing these pictures for inspiration? 10 50 upvotes · 23 comments Looking for some advice on how to get back into photography. Did it for 7 years and been
out of it since 2022. Feeling stuck? r/AskPhotography • 8mo ago Looking for some advice on how to get back into photography. Did it for 7 years and been out of it since 2022.
Feeling stuck? r/AskPhotography - Looking for some advice on how to get back into photography. Did it for 7 years and been out of it since 2022. Feeling stuck? 3 34 upvotes · 9
comments How to take photographs like this? r/AskPhotography • 2mo ago How to take photographs like this? r/AskPhotography - How to take photographs like this? 524 upvotes · 72
comments Event Photographers; what do you do when no one wants photos? r/AskPhotography • 5mo ago Event Photographers; what do you do when no one wants photos? 146 upvotes · 91
comments How can I turn my photography hobby into a small passive income stream? r/AskPhotography • 2mo ago How can I turn my photography hobby into a small passive income stream?
23 comments I’m struggling to price my photography without ripping people off or myself — thoughts? r/AskPhotography • 4mo ago I’m struggling to price my photography without
ripping people off or myself — thoughts? r/AskPhotography - I’m struggling to price my photography without ripping people off or myself — thoughts? 5 56 upvotes · 80 comments View
Post in Português (Brasil) Français See more Community Info Section r/AskPhotography Join Photography community ready to help. Whether you're a seasoned professional or just
starting out, this subreddit is the perfect place to ask questions, seek advice, and engage in discussions about all things photography. We're here to foster a supportive and
knowledgeable community that shares a passion for capturing the world through the lens. If you're new to photography or have a burning question, don't hesitate to make a post! Our
community is filled with experienced photographers who are eager to help. Show more Public Reddit Rules Privacy Policy User Agreement Your Privacy Choices Accessibility Reddit,
Inc. © 2026. All rights reserved. Collapse Navigation Skip to main content Struggling to get clients as a freelance photographer : r/photography r/photography Search in
r/photography Get App Log In Expand user menu Skip to NavigationSkip to Right Sidebar Back Go to photography r/photography • 2y ago perceptionistfilms Struggling to get clients as
a freelance photographer Business I have my own website and tried using Fiverr but no luck. Does anyone have any suggestions with how to gain clients as a freelancer? Archived
post. New comments cannot be posted and votes cannot be cast. Upvote 34 Downvote 30 Go to comments Share u/OpenAI avatar OpenAI • Promoted Take your product from first-pass to
release-ready. Codex, available with ChatGPT. Sign Up chatgpt.com Thumbnail image: Take your product from first-pass to release-ready. Codex, available with ChatGPT. Sort by: Best
Search Comments Expand comment search Comments Section Bobzyurunkle • 2y ago Network, use social media as much as possible to promote yourself. Participate in local events to
showcase your business. Paid advertising is the old stand-by. Friends and family make good sales people to spread word of mouth. It's not easy in this day and age. Anyone with a
phone considers themselves a photographer and is less likely to want to pay for it now. You can diversify. Don't limit yourself to one type of shooting. You have be an all around
good photographer to take what comes your way. Today you're real estate photographer, tomorrow you're doing grad portraits, weekends are busy for weddings. It's a tough gig to
break into. Good luck! u/stonk_frother avatar stonk_frother • 2y ago Anyone with a phone considers themselves a photographer and is less likely to want to pay for it now. I think
there's starting to be some social pushback against this. At least among the circles I run in. I think people are starting to realise that the 25000 photos on their phone are never
going to get looked at again, and most of them don't look that great. The average person doesn't understand light or composition, so no matter how good the cameras are, their
photos still look shit. AI processing only goes so far (for now at least). Paying for something shot professionally generally means it won't get lost in the pile of dogshit photos.
Especially once you get it printed. At they should look a lot better than anything a client has taken on their phone (otherwise you shouldn't really be selling yourself as a
professional photographer). Great photos elicit emotion. If someone isn't excited, amazed, etc. when they see my photos, then I've not done my job. I don't think i've ever seen
someone react like that to a photo they've taken on their iPhone. Bobzyurunkle • 2y ago I agree to an extent. What people find to be an acceptable photo is the common issue.
Because of that, they're less likely to consider a pro to pay to get images that are far superior but do they care? With the AI options now to remove objects/people simply by
circling them is amazing! The Google phones allow you to add yourself to a selfie now! The filters are amazing and people like using them. I agree, the thousands of photo on a
person's phone become forgotten memories, but they're kept. Phone photos are immediate and available to share in an instant which is what people crave. They can be posted to
facebook or Instagram or sent to each other in literally one press of a button. Now, would people hire someone in these cases like at small parties, walking on the beach or any
other spontaneous moment? No. But the mindset that they can do it anywhere they want, there's less likelihood of hiring someone. I used to be a professional shooter and my latest
headshot for my company was done with a phone camera. Slight touching with auto filters and it was accepted. My advice to diversify still stands. In situations where people are
intimidated by the need for photography is where a pro can still excel. Being a jack of all trades to jump in and get what the client needs is paramount. You take the worry out of
the assignment for them and deliver. It's not for the weak of heart, that's for sure. u/harpistic avatar harpistic • 2y ago Anyone with a phone considers themselves a photographer
and is less likely to want to pay for it now. Absolutely this; think of the industry as being oversaturated on steroids. u/aarrtee avatar aarrtee • 2y ago sadly... this is an
accurate answer u/harpistic avatar harpistic • 2y ago • Edited 2y ago Add to that: a too-large proportion of the oversaturation is of really rubbish photographers who got there
first. And ones which are less rubbish, but still crappy. Ish. Edit: I realise that that might sound damning; given the glut of photographers out there, clients don’t necessarily
choose the best photographer when hiring, or have reasons for staying with lesser photographers. An example I raised a few days ago is of a circus company I’ve been working with,
joining the director’s fiancé who’s been her longterm photographer, and who tried to claim my photos as his. Comparison… his photo is the second one: https://imgur.com/a/NDHuFmR
u/wickeddimension avatar wickeddimension • 2y ago The first question to ask yourself is, who is even your client? If you can't define that, you should start there. And no, "People
who want their photo taken" isn't a viable target audience. Busines class 101 would really help a lot of photography businesses. Precarious314159 • 2y ago This! I have a Master's
in marketing and have no problem finding clients even though I'm not even the best in the area. It's part creativity and part networking. I'll get hired to photograph an event,
chat up the crowd, take note of who the VIPs and their aides are by who's constantly trying to take photos with their phones of a person. Just introduce myself and say "If you need
proper photos of this for socials, I can edit a few of your guy and send'em over an hour after if you give your card". Did that with a Congressman two months ago and they've now
recommended me three high profile gigs. Determine your client, what they need, and network organically instead of cold calling. So many photographers act like cold calling/emailing
is a clever way but I hire graphic designers constantly and one I meet in public and seems chill will last with me while the 19th "Good afteroon, my name is-" random email gets
marked as spam. u/colinreidr avatar colinreidr • 7mo ago I have gotten a few clients in the past but its still hard for me to find more / new people to keep me going on a
consistent basis instead of spread apart JTBoom1 • 2y ago Contact other professionals near you. Offer to work as an assistant for cheap on an ad hoc basis. This will help you via
word of mouth and help you build your portfolio. The local pro I know is always bringing in other people for bigger shoots or gets brought in to assist with weddings, etc. He's
actually brought me in a couple of times, but I'm just an amateur without the extensive equipment that the pros have. I work for beer, so that's a point in my favor.
eventuallyarrive • 2y ago I think places like fiverr are a race to the bottom, clients looking for the cheapest deal possible. I'd recommend trying locally, lots of people need
professional photography. I recommend being a specialist in one niche area. There are tons of generalists out there. But build a really good reputation as the person to go to for a
certain type of photography. It sounds counter intuitive but it's good business sense Ok_Equivalent_9161 • 2y ago I just graduated from college recently and I am also trying this
freelancing thing, but I’m more a videographer. It’s really hard and I’m not in a position to give you any advice as I’m struggling to find work sometimes. But hey I will share
some of my thoughts. I’m doing a lot more since one year ago and the biggest change for myself is lowering the standard. I was really picky and maybe a bit pretentious(maybe still
am:)) and I only take jobs that really interest me. After graduation and not been able to find my desire works. I just started to doing anything. I still save time for my passion
stuff and I’m willing to do them for free. In the meantime I just need to get my hands dirty and honestly just go out there and shoot stuff, to make money and connections. Some
clients are douche and rich, but I’m feeling more open for different kinds of stuff. And yeah connection is really important. I’m an introvert and I HATE forcing myself to interact
with people. I still do sometimes. I’m making slow progress and I have been more active and reach out to people more even though most of them are not gonna reply to me. I met some
people and they have small gigs here and there, and maybe their friends need something. This is nothing new but apparently this is the most important thing for video or photo Also
try Backstage, they have job post there for photos and videos. Good luck to you! u/Aacidus avatar Aacidus • 2y ago Social media, stories, reels. Set up mock seasonal discount
prices with limited availability, like 30% off or something during a specific date range. For this to work you need a nice looking portfolio, otherwise do a larger discount at
least to get clients and build a better portfolio from taking their photos. Then if those shots turned out great, do another ad, do a discount but with higher pricing. If you were
charging $250 the first time around, now charge $275 and say it's with a discount. Prices will vary in market to market. Hopefully after that you can charge a reasonable market
rate to reflect your worth and skillset. Then only once in a blue moon do a slight discount form your now established rate or just offer specific packages that are like 15-20
minute mini sessions for grads and whatever. As someone else mentioned, word of mouth works as well from friends of friends. This has helped me out as well. u/tehkeizer avatar
tehkeizer • 2y ago find like 3 to 5 niches and work those. examples. linkedin style headshots, senior photos, family shoots, wedding, parties, birthdays. [deleted] • 2y ago Ex-pro
photographer here. Best answer I can think of is to build your portfolio, network, and experience. The first clients are the hardest won. Find your niche, be realistic, and pitch
ideas. Never work for free (this fucks things up for everyone else), but offer a reduced rate as a trial. Put yourself in front of the right people, constantly. It has less to do
with talent, a lot to do with marketing and chutzpah. Good luck! u/07budgj avatar 07budgj • 2y ago Not enough info on what type of photography you shoot to give a detailed answer.
In general, Use social media Word of mouth Accept you may have to do some free/low pay shoots to get your foot in the door Assist for a established photographer to get
contacts/experience etc Dont bother with services like fiverr, they are a race to the bottom StygianAnon • 2y ago Develop a better personality. It’s just sales. Bobzyurunkle • 2y
ago The business aspect is key. 80% sales/marketing & 20% actual photography u/AxonbyAppLovin avatar u/AxonbyAppLovin • Promoted Profitable advertising made simple Reach 1B+
Shoppers Across Mobile Apps Profitable advertising made simple Profitable advertising made simple Profitable advertising made simple Profitable advertising made simple Profitable
advertising made simple axon.ai Learn More Orcharyu • 2y ago Legitimately freelance means self-employed small business owner. While your photographic skills and such are important,
you're going to make or break yourself on your business practices. Study those and that should help you a lot bransiladams • 2y ago This is simply the reality of a saturated
market. If you aren’t already on somebody’s mind, they probably know dozens of other photogs Albert481 • 2y ago Currently building a platform to address this problem. Let me know
if you’re interested to be one of the first users! u/ConsistentCount463 avatar ConsistentCount463 • 2y ago Reaching out to people through email is a good way. If you see any small
bands, or sports teams have very few photos you could reach out to them and do it at a discounted rate just to build yourself a better portfolio. Not only that, but if they share
the photos it spreads your name. If you really want to take photography as a career, invest in some professional website SEO and start promoting yourself like crazy in local
facebook groups. You want your name to be the first thing people think when they think the word "photographer" Shoot for free if you have to in exchange for testimonials you can
stick on your website and treat every shoot as if you are being paid for it even if you aren't. Get some t-shirt, jackets, lanyards printed with your company logo on them even your
name works tbh. But you want to look as professional as you possibly can so people take you seriously and you aren't just "Jeff from facebook with a nice camera." u/CathyBkind
avatar CathyBkind • 1y ago My partner & I had what we called, “The White Trash Package.” The client purchased the film, brought it to the wedding, handed it over to us. We shot the
film and gave it back when done. They paid $X amount for each roll of film we shot. They paid for film, development and prints. Word of mouth travels fast. u/Guaydacan avatar
Guaydacan • 10mo ago If you already have a website and just aren’t getting traffic, one thing that’s worked for me is using software that builds out optimized pages for each
service and surrounding town you want to show up in. Most sites only cover the basics like “wedding photographer in [main city],” but this lets you show up for stuff like “grad
portraits in [smaller town]” or “event photography in [neighborhood].” I use it for my own sites and lead gen business. It runs alongside your current site, and once it’s set up,
it just works in the background to bring in more visibility without needing to learn SEO or hire someone to do it for you. officialjnoel • 10mo ago Add your service to
justquicktools.com/find-photographers It's free and organized so people can find you more easily New to Reddit? Create your account and connect with a world of communities.
Continue With Phone Number By continuing, you agree to our User Agreement and acknowledge that you understand the Privacy Policy. Related Answers Section Related Answers
Freelancing tips for photographers How to get commercial photography clients Best lenses for portrait photography Tips for capturing stunning landscapes How to improve low-light
photography skills More posts you may like Client citing themselves as photographer in post instead of the actual photographer r/photography • 2mo ago Client citing themselves as
photographer in post instead of the actual photographer 78 upvotes · 50 comments u/ThriventFinancial avatar ThriventFinancial • Promoted Put your money where your heart is
Thumbnail image: Put your money where your heart is thrivent.com Learn More What parts of being a professional photographer isn’t talked about enough? r/photography • 1mo ago What
parts of being a professional photographer isn’t talked about enough? 82 upvotes · 145 comments How can freelance photography be anything but a side job? r/freelance • 5y ago How
can freelance photography be anything but a side job? 63 upvotes · 29 comments Thinking of quitting my job to pursue photography full time. Would love to hear from anyone who's
taken the leap. r/photography • 7mo ago Thinking of quitting my job to pursue photography full time. Would love to hear from anyone who's taken the leap. 83 upvotes · 111 comments
Looking to start up a sports photography side business and I could use some advice r/photography • 9y ago Looking to start up a sports photography side business and I could use
some advice 13 upvotes · 19 comments Struggling to find clients as a freelance photographer... any ideas ? r/photography • 4y ago Struggling to find clients as a freelance
photographer... any ideas ? 56 upvotes · 46 comments Sports Photographers, How did you get your start? r/photography • 13y ago Sports Photographers, How did you get your start? 64
upvotes · 26 comments Looking for Freelance photographers in Hyderabad for a small event r/hyderabad • 3y ago Looking for Freelance photographers in Hyderabad for a small event 2
upvotes · 9 comments Best way to get clients as a freelance copywriter r/copywriting • 2y ago Best way to get clients as a freelance copywriter 24 upvotes · 19 comments Any good
freelance photographers? r/Austin • 1y ago Any good freelance photographers? 4 upvotes · 17 comments How did you got your first freelance job? r/photography • 8mo ago How did you
got your first freelance job? 15 comments Where can I find local freelance photographers? r/sydney • 4y ago Where can I find local freelance photographers? 17 comments Any
freelancer photographers? r/sandiego • 6mo ago Any freelancer photographers? 5 upvotes · 9 comments What would like to get as a gift as a photographer r/photography • 2mo ago What
would like to get as a gift as a photographer 10 upvotes · 77 comments Need recommendations for freelance photographer r/Denver • 4mo ago Need recommendations for freelance
photographer 7 comments Looking for a side hustle as a bilingual social media manager, where to find clients? r/sidehustle • 2y ago Looking for a side hustle as a bilingual social
media manager, where to find clients? 1 upvote · 6 comments How do you actually get a job as a songwriter? r/Songwriting • 2y ago How do you actually get a job as a songwriter? 15
upvotes · 51 comments Looking for a reliable media buyer r/SMMA • 2y ago Looking for a reliable media buyer 3 upvotes · 8 comments Any tips for freelancing? r/photography • 2y ago
