your real estate license, selling a property, investing in real estate, or just curious about the market, you've come to the right place. Our community exists to help share
knowledge, experiences, and advice to help you navigate the often complex world of real estate. AskRealEstateAgents 28K weekly visitors Join A place for the general public (non
agents) to get advice on real estate transactions (buying, selling, leasing, etc.) or working with Realtors, Real Estate Agents, or their brokerages. realtors 135K weekly visitors
Join For discussion about what it means to be a Realtor or Real Estate Agent. Industry-specific news, ideas, questions, stories and anything related to the business of selling real
estate. The term REALTOR™ is a registered trademark of the National Association of Realtors. This subreddit is not affiliated with the National Association of Realtors (NAR) but
many of the subscribers are members of NAR. We are a professional forum and professionals should adhere to the NAR Code of Ethics. RealEstateTechnology 8.5K weekly visitors Join
Real Estate Technology for real estate professionals (including agents, brokers, investors, and proptech professionals). Trends and innovations in technology for real estate
including lead generation, marketing, websites, SMS, and SaaS, consumer behavior, residential and commercial software, etc. In short: If it’s a tool that makes lives easier for
real estate professionals, you’re in the right place. Also a space to discuss broader Prop Tech trends (mobile app, business/funding, news, etc). See Answer Best camera settings
for real estate shoots Creative angles to showcase small spaces How to capture outdoor spaces effectively Common mistakes in real estate photography More posts you may like
Struggling to get my first client. r/RealEstatePhotography • 1mo ago Struggling to get my first client. r/RealEstatePhotography - Struggling to get my first client. 4 38 upvotes ·
68 comments u/hyperagentapp avatar hyperagentapp • Promoted Deploy AI agents across your entire company. Every agent gets its own prompt, tools, skills, and budget — managed from
one command center. Skill learning, eval rubrics, deploy to the org. $1,000 bonus credits for the first 1,000 subscribers. Built by the team at Airtable. Thumbnail image: Deploy AI
agents across your entire company. Every agent gets its own prompt, tools, skills, and budget — managed from one command center. Skill learning, eval rubrics, deploy to the org.
$1,000 bonus credits for the first 1,000 subscribers. Built by the team at Airtable. hyperagent.com Sign Up I know this has been asked a million times but what are your strategies
to get clients? r/RealEstatePhotography • 3mo ago I know this has been asked a million times but what are your strategies to get clients? 11 upvotes · 27 comments Seeking Clients?
How are you doing it? r/interiordesigner • 3mo ago Seeking Clients? How are you doing it? 8 upvotes · 21 comments How do you get clients? r/msp • 8mo ago How do you get clients? 14
upvotes · 65 comments How to get clients r/GeneralContractor • 3mo ago How to get clients 8 upvotes · 7 comments How can I generate more clients? r/cleaningbusiness • 4mo ago How
can I generate more clients? 6 upvotes · 15 comments How do you get clients! r/agency • 1y ago How do you get clients! 31 upvotes · 82 comments How to get clients? r/petsitting •
1mo ago How to get clients? 13 upvotes · 40 comments Best possible client reaction. r/RealEstatePhotography • 8mo ago Best possible client reaction. r/RealEstatePhotography - Best
possible client reaction. 59 upvotes · 14 comments here's how you get clients. r/EntrepreneurRideAlong • 4d ago here's how you get clients. 31 upvotes · 24 comments How to get
clients? r/TattooBeginners • 5mo ago How to get clients? r/TattooBeginners - How to get clients? 2 148 upvotes · 35 comments how do you deal with clients who think they're your
only client? r/clientsfromhell • 6mo ago how do you deal with clients who think they're your only client? 29 upvotes · 10 comments How do you get clients? r/PPC • 2mo ago How do
you get clients? 21 upvotes · 55 comments how are you actually getting clients? r/webdev • 5mo ago how are you actually getting clients? 31 upvotes · 58 comments How do you find
clients and work r/web_design • 7d ago How do you find clients and work 32 upvotes · 36 comments How are you finding clients right now? r/agency • 7mo ago How are you finding
clients right now? 99 upvotes · 139 comments What's the deal with some clients? r/msp • 6mo ago What's the deal with some clients? 43 upvotes · 64 comments How did you get your
first client? r/n8nbusinessautomation • 24d ago How did you get your first client? 7 upvotes · 38 comments How do you all get clients? r/freelancing • 2mo ago How do you all get
clients? 32 upvotes · 53 comments How do we even get clients? r/localseo • 2mo ago How do we even get clients? 29 comments This is Tough. Which Client FIRST? r/NCLEX_RN • 5mo ago
This is Tough. Which Client FIRST? r/NCLEX_RN - This is Tough. Which Client FIRST? 76 upvotes · 22 comments Finding it hard to get clients r/smallbusinessuk • 18d ago Finding it
hard to get clients 16 upvotes · 69 comments Getting clients r/DigitalMarketing • 19d ago Getting clients 7 upvotes · 20 comments how to get clients ? r/VideoEditors • 2mo ago how
to get clients ? 11 upvotes · 40 comments Community Info Section r/RealEstatePhotography Join Real Estate Photography How real estate is sold and marketed has changed a lot in the
last two decades. What used to be a short sentence full of abbreviations in the local classifieds and a one-page flyer in a plastic box outside the house is now a full suite of
marketing materials. This community is for creators of that media to come together and discuss the industry, the craft, the techniques, the gear, and otherwise learn from each
other. A rising tide lifts all ships! Show more Public Reddit Rules Privacy Policy User Agreement Your Privacy Choices Accessibility Reddit, Inc. © 2026. All rights reserved.
Collapse Navigation Skip to main content Professional photographers either signed with an agency or making full time income - questions for you : r/photography r/photography Search
in r/photography Get App Log In Expand user menu Skip to NavigationSkip to Right Sidebar Back Go to photography r/photography • 5y ago theguiltedbutterfly Professional
photographers either signed with an agency or making full time income - questions for you Discussion I'm a semi-professional photographer (getting paid for some dance photography
work here and there) who also has a full-time 9-5 job in data science. I've recently become more interested in making my photography my full-time job and teaching analytics on the
side (so switching my two work lives), but have some pretty big questions about what working as a full-time photographer is actually like. Some questions I'd love to discuss: If
you're signed with an agency, how did you get signed, and what do you feel the benefits / drawbacks of working with an agency are? How much does social media play into finding
clients? On a weekly basis, how is your time broken down between shooting / editing / sourcing clients / other business admin? How much do you charge per shoot, and what do you
shoot? What's the largest funnel for finding your clients? How does doing photography professionally affect your ability to have creative authority? And any other advice or input
you'd want to share! Archived post. New comments cannot be posted and votes cannot be cast. Upvote 31 Downvote 35 Go to comments Share u/Cam_StreamShark avatar Cam_StreamShark •
Promoted StreamShark: Boost accessibility with live captions. Fully automated. StreamShark: Boost accessibility with live captions. Fully automated. StreamShark: Boost
accessibility with live captions. Fully automated. StreamShark: Boost accessibility with live captions. Fully automated. streamshark.io Learn More Sort by: Best Search Comments
Expand comment search Comments Section dampus2000 • 5y ago The agent contacted me after a mutal friend put us in contact. The pluses are they take care of negotiation your fee and
find you clients. The drawback is the skim 20% of my paycheck. Quite a lot these days but it’s not the only way. A huge part is spent in planning in meetings & writing emails with
clients, meetings with set design, costume, makeup & retouchers. Right now I shoot maybe three days a month. Loads of time spent in retouch, editing and post. 4000€ per shoot day
minus 20%. Fashion. Coffees, beers & dinners with art directors. It gives you a huge creative authority. Your responsibility is to make sure that the client receives the image they
are expecting and you need to handle all areas to make sure they get that image. If they are unhappy with the results it’s your shoulders the blame falls upon. artur_oliver • 5y
ago Thanks for the heads up, can you say some names of agencies in Europe and how is the process of choosing a photographer for the agency? Portfolio but how is the portfolio
mainly? Or is it shooting models? I'm really asking out of curiosity 😅 dampus2000 • 5y ago It's so much about what clients you have worked with. Agencies are just looking for
photographers who will bring a steady revenue stream and can be developed to work with as many different clients as possible. Mix this with your ability to communicate and work in
the creative/commercial field. Just shooting the models for the their agents isn't the best way into the industry but it will give you a beautiful portfolio. 3 more replies
thefilmdoc • 5y ago Where are you based my man? Would be interested in a similar agent in the US dampus2000 • 5y ago Europe. Most my work is in Paris. I like KZM agency with Norman
Wong's work and Petra Collins on lighthousemm in North America otherwise you just have giants like MA+group. 1 more reply Vicsposure • 5y ago 20% commission and probably 20% tax
that’s 40% of your income gone 🤯. [deleted] • 5y ago How many times have you charged $2,400 for a day or shooting? sen_clay_davis1 • 5y ago Gonna go out on a limb here and say just
keep data science as your job and make art for yourself. Shooting professionally is a grind and there’s always someone ready to do it cheaper with every person along the way asking
to cut costs. I shoot ecomm for about 800-1200/day upwards of 150 days a year. After expenses, accountants, gear, taxes not left with a ton. It’s fun and I get to meet interesting
people but it’s really hard work. I’m standing on concrete or on a ladder 8+ hours a day. niresangwa • 5y ago Not with an agency.. freelance doing wedding photography. You’ll
struggle if you don’t at least have a basic presence, at least in my industry. You don’t have to turn it up to 11 like some people do, but posting work and keeping it ticking over
is important. I’ll shoot a wedding on Saturday, usually an engagement on Sunday.. I’ve delivered both completely by Sunday night. In the week it’s just answering emails, and basic
admin like updating the accounting spreadsheet, helping associates, occasionally updating the website etc. I’m basically off Monday to Friday. Avg. commission nets around $3k once
you factor in the contract, then post-wedding stuff like products. I advertise on The Knot/Wedding Wire, the biggest hubs in the US for wedding planning. It garners maybe 50% of
inquiries. The remainder from referrals and Google etc. I didn’t compromise my approach when I built the business over a decade ago, so didn’t conform to industry standards and
expectations, so I’ve been able to have 100% control over everything; luckily I’ve been successful enough not to need to do so, or to take clients I don’t either like the sound of
or like the look of. The website is a fantastic passive filter, so I rarely get people that would cause me trouble. I would add that my case isn’t representative of how most
peoples venture into this would be, and no one will admit it, but luck plays a big part in getting to this point. I haven’t found a lot of the usual answers to this to be that
true.. such as you’ll spend more time running the business and doing backend stuff than you do shooting. It took me a few years to streamline my workflow but now it’s optimised,
it’s not an issue. Another thing people won’t talk about is how important it is to have something to differentiate yourself. You have to have something to set yourself apart.. at
least in the wedding industry too many people just end up copying trends such as website design, processing presets etc and it ends up all looking the same, then wonder why they
can’t breakout.. probably why so few survive once they run out of friends and family to shoot. u/theguiltedbutterfly avatar theguiltedbutterfly OP • 5y ago Super interesting...how
did you start your business? You mentioned you're off M-F which is amazing - so you basically only need to shoot / edit on weekends, and then some light admin throughout the week?
And that makes you a full-time income? niresangwa • 5y ago It’s not like I grew up wanting to be a wedding photographer.. I wasn’t 16 years old leafing through bridal mags dreaming
of it.. my graduate degrees are in physiology.. but I ended up shooting my sister-in-law’s wedding as their guy dropped out at the last minute and I was surprised by how much I
enjoyed it.. …and not the love and everlasting devotion shit, I just enjoyed how much of a challenge it was in terms of photography. As I had no formal portrait training, or any
experience with weddings, I just did my thing, posted it to social media for them and that was that.. fast forward a bit I had others asking, and lucked into a couple of friend
circles who had a spate of weddings in a short period and within a year or two with some advertising, that was that.. So between not trying to style myself to the conventional
wedding photographer cliche and having a good source of clients I was able to just organically build it the way I wanted to. Yes, my decks are cleared by Sunday night.. all shot,
culled, processed and uploaded to SM and the client gallery. Even double wedding weekends are done by then. Standard wedding is 12-9 Saturday, SM posted by midnight, the rest
processed by 10am and uploaded by 2pm. A few hours off, go do the engagement, that’s all wrapped within a couple of hours of getting home. The 3k/contract is pretty standard for my
market, so a full season, plus some commissions from my associate’s weddings and it’s a comfortable life, yeah.. Again, I’d reiterate that what I do isn’t the norm.. most wedding
photographers take 2-6 weeks to deliver a wedding, so can get very backed up.. 4 more replies artur_oliver • 5y ago I really like your approach to the work, how do you use your
website as passive filter? What do you mean by that? niresangwa • 5y ago I was very careful only to show the edgier work I did initially, on the understanding that if clients liked
that, they’d be happy.. as opposed to showing more conventional work then freaking them out with more avant garde images.. I’m also very candid in my copy.. I wrote it as ‘me’, not
what I thought wedding clients might want to hear, so it conveys my real personality.. people who don’t appreciate the jokes or style of writing, or the images I post aren’t the
people I want to work with so it works out.. I don’t have to adapt or change myself just to get contracts, it’s a fit if they get it. If they don’t, I never hear from them. In
terms of business design it was the same.. for example, I offer one term of coverage.. not half a dozen confusing ‘packages’. People really appreciate the simplicity. 6 more
replies Subcriminal • 5y ago If you’re signed with an agency, how did you get signed, and what do you feel the benefits / drawbacks of working with an agency are? I’m not signed,
any work I’ve done with an agency was done on a story by story basis, they’d see some work I’d done and contact me in an offer to rep my images for that particular story. It worked
pretty well for me, little effort on my part, my images got shared to news organisations and I got paid. Outside of that I’ve been working as a staff photographer for governments /
large companies /media organisations. How much does social media play into finding clients? None, I don’t use it at all. To be fair I’m a bad person to ask about this as I’ve
ditched my website as wel now because I have no need for it. On a weekly basis, how is your time broken down between shooting / editing / sourcing clients / other business admin?
Producing is maybe 60%, shooting 20% and editing 20% How much do you charge per shoot, and what do you shoot? If I am somehow working freelance, a lot, it has to be worth it to
take time away from my main work or my free time. My job pays very well, mainly so I don’t wander off and do freelance. What's the largest funnel for finding your clients? There’s
a ream of people who find stories and then book me for additional content like photo and video. How does doing photography professionally affect your ability to have creative
authority? Earlier on in my career, not much, depending on the place I worked. Now I have quite a lot of creative freedom and the authority to decide how we go about shooting
things. BokehMonkeh • 5y ago I run a business with 5 FTE photographers and around 25 freelancers working for us. As such, I guess we're a bit more of a mature operation than what
you have in mind, but I'll still give my answers, and you can use it for what it's worth to you. If you're signed with an agency, how did you get signed, and what do you feel the
benefits / drawbacks of working with an agency are? As in a talent agency? I didn't even know those existed for photographers. I would assume they're largely along the lines of
agencies for models, actors, singers, etc. I.e. largely useless when you're starting up and would actually need them, and financial leeches once you've been successful enough that
you don't really need them anymore. The only agencies that affect our business are advertisement agencies. And I love them very much <3 How much does social media play into finding
clients? For the commercial/advertisement part of our work, which is the big ticket sales, it's pretty much worthless. Advertisement agencies wants to see full demo reels,
portfolio decks, and the whole works. They're generally not going to check out your Instagram for work. For the more day-to-day bread and butter work that we do, which is mostly
automotive photography and architecture/real estate photography, social media is very relevant. We generally spend around €2500 a month on Instagram, which is where we do most of
our automotive promotions, around €1500 a month on Facebook, where we mostly do the real estate promotions and we also have a couple of Google campaigns going at any given time,
although that varies a lot more. On a weekly basis, how is your time broken down between shooting / editing / sourcing clients / other business admin? For me, it's probably 3 days
a week doing business admin and 2 days doing creative work. For the rest of our FTEs it's pretty much 4.5 days of creative work and then half a day networking with clients to make
sure the work keeps coming in. Our freelancers are pretty much 100% doing creative work, we don't generally expect them to generate any business on their own - although we love
them when they do. How much do you charge per shoot, and what do you shoot? As you see above, my work isn't really representative of the business as a whole. The cheapest packages
we offer are automotive photos for individuals, typically for sales ads. Which is €250 for about half an hour of shooting with a freelancer and then we ship the images off to a
third party retoucher who charges like €2 a photo. It's a cost we just can't compete with for high volume, low income sales like this. The work that I do myself is generally higher
end advertisement work, where our daily rates typically run from €3500 to €5000, and that's before usage costs (and all of the other shit we can bill clients for). I've done a
breakdown on usage rates here so I'm linking that instead of re-writing it at. The biggest campaign we've shot was a model launch presentation for a car brand that ended up costing
about €275k for a 3 day shoot. A lot of that is just pass-through costs though. What's the largest funnel for finding your clients? Again, depends on your market. If you want to do
wedding, events, and that kind of stuff it's going to be social media and targeted advertisement. If you want to do fashion or editorial, it's network building more than anything -
you gotta get your name in front of the people booking. If you want to do commercial/advertisement, it's part networking but also much more traditional sales work. Literally knock
on doors present your work, ask to be allowed to participate in tender offers and then deliver the full offer. How does doing photography professionally affect your ability to have
creative authority? Completely depends on a client. Sometimes we have a client that literally gives us a super detailed bullet list with location, subject, models, lighting,
retouching - literally everything they want us to do. Other times we have a client who pretty much tells us that "we need a marketing campaign for <vehicle> which will be broadcast
in <country>. Make it cool, and don't offend anyone." So yeah, there's no fixed answer to this. Some clients knows exactly what they want down to the smallest details, others want
to be surprised. Gotta take your clients as they come. rad_woah • 5y ago Not OP, but thank you for that answer. I'm a full time photog in a commercial studio and this helps getting
my head around the business side of things. It's such a tricky thing that you may have the skills, but if you're not business minded you can't make something yourself. BokehMonkeh
• 5y ago No worries, best of luck to you! If you have more specific questions, feel free to ask - though understand that a lot of advice might be region-dependent. 1 more reply
rhgarton • 5y ago No agent No social media needed really but I like dipping in to it once and a while 3-4 days shooting. 1-2 days for the rest. £720 per day (not including
expenses) and I shoot on film sets Word of mouth now, before it was networking like a mutha Thankfully my job allows both any I really love it. silent357 • 5y ago Great
questions...I am curious to know...I don't know of any agency signed photographers. The pros that I know generally do alot of licensing with there photos...So, commercial work is
what pays the bills for them. I am curious to hear others because I had to develop good relationships with alot of pro's to get answer out of them. u/josephallenkeys avatar
josephallenkeys • 5y ago • Edited 5y ago I'm full-time with a salary at a creative communications agency. This is different to being "signed" to an agency in that if you're signed,
you're still essentially freelance. You just have someone taking commission when they help you get clients whereas I'm on a fixed income like a normal job and basically have
nothing to do with drawing clients. I just get handed briefs and go! So, to answer all directly: I started working there in the Live event/AV department as a sound and video
engineer. Photography was a hobby but they noticed that I took a camera along to work. They asked a few times for some snaps of our set-ups, etc and one thing led to another. In
fact, I was preparing to make a case to them that a full-time photographer would be in their interest when they pulled me in to offer to me the job. Social plays zero part in my
day to day work. however, I also love weddings and getting them is all about social, so I'm active for that. On a weekly basis, it varies greatly but generally, 2-3 shoot days,
then edit/admin days. Admin isn't huge - mainly backing up, doing my receipts, etc. My rate to clients is £850 per day (8-10hrs) and that includes the first edit and delivery but
not tax or expenses. Obviously, that doesn't reflect on what I'm paid for a salary. For a Wedding, I charge £1200 for full coverage (10+hrs) including tax, edit, prints, travel and
expenses so I'm in a similar territory. What I shoot also varies greatly, but the company works for businesses like retail, automotive, banks, tech companies, pharma and more. My
bread and butter when I started were covering the live events I used to operate, BTS on film shoots alongside headshots for the core business and PR stuff. It's since evolved as
the company has evolved and I now shoot ad campaigns with lifestyle and product, branding and business with lifestyle, portraits, architecture and still do events, BTS, PR, and all
the rest. I'm not even sure of the largest funnel for feeding clients as far as that business goes. The sales guys just do what they do! To be honest, most of the time, it impacts
greatly. I produce images that I know the client wants to see. Smiley happy people amidst the corporate mundane. Though most of my work is essentially documentary, so a certain
amount of creativity lies in how I present these real-world situations. There are some shoots in which I can offer some creative ideas and have control, but then on larger shoots
that are creative in themselves, there are many more minds put to them. The initial creative is made by a Creative Producer and the client; then an Art Director is appointed; a
stylist; wardrobe; set designer; potentially a video team that have their own needs and ideas. I'm then there as practically a technical op for the lights and camera. We work
together to get the best thing but I will always be the one responsible for the final frame and look. So overall, my own creativity often has to be left aside with my ego. But that
doesn't mean my own eye and taste isn't in the details. If I really want to get creative and shoot the things I want to shoot I do it in my spare time. I feel the last point leads
onto what I've learned over the years, talking to others in different situations. Basically, it's incredibly hard to make any money from the photography you love unless the
photography you love happens to be for someone else. All of the personal works we see around in journals and over social networks are just personal works. You can ask many of them
if that stuff makes them money and they'll probably say none to very little. Even the most famous stuff. What it does, however, is draw people in to commission them based on what
they've seen, whether what they ask for is anything like it or not. A professional photographer leads with all that as their brand identity but if they're still asked by Gucci to
photograph a handbag on a white scoop and don't have much wiggle room to do anything else? Why not? Easy win! Feel free to ask me more. I also employ photographers when I'm
otherwise busy or need support. Check out the kind of work I do on my website: https://www.josephallenkeys.com and I work for https://www.drpgroup.com/ New to Reddit? Create your
account and connect with a world of communities. Continue With Phone Number By continuing, you agree to our User Agreement and acknowledge that you understand the Privacy Policy.
Related Answers Section Related Answers Best photography agencies for professionals Best lenses for portrait photography Tips for capturing stunning landscapes How to improve
low-light photography skills Essential gear for travel photographers More posts you may like Getting into professional wedding photography r/canon • 2y ago Getting into
professional wedding photography 29 comments u/ThriventFinancial avatar ThriventFinancial • Promoted Purpose meets planning Thumbnail image: Purpose meets planning thrivent.com
Learn More Finding a Photography Agent? r/photography • 9mo ago Finding a Photography Agent? 2 upvotes · 10 comments Talent management? r/photography • 1y ago Talent management? 2
upvotes · 10 comments What parts of being a professional photographer isn’t talked about enough? r/photography • 1mo ago What parts of being a professional photographer isn’t
talked about enough? 82 upvotes · 145 comments Client citing themselves as photographer in post instead of the actual photographer r/photography • 2mo ago Client citing themselves
as photographer in post instead of the actual photographer 78 upvotes · 50 comments Is anyone a part of a photography community? r/photography • 17d ago Is anyone a part of a
photography community? 87 upvotes · 78 comments Need advice re: professional photos r/photography • 2mo ago Need advice re: professional photos 24 upvotes · 80 comments Working
photography, maybe sharing of experiences too? Currently going to find my first paid photography gig r/photography • 4y ago Working photography, maybe sharing of experiences too?
Currently going to find my first paid photography gig 3 upvotes · 15 comments In your opinion, to what degree is photography a talent? r/photography • 10mo ago In your opinion, to
what degree is photography a talent? 99 upvotes · 248 comments Tips from a photographer who hires photographers r/photography • 3y ago Tips from a photographer who hires
photographers 813 upvotes · 79 comments How do photographers get signed with an agency? r/photography • 6y ago How do photographers get signed with an agency? 447 upvotes · 134
comments There are so many photography influencers on YouTube. What percentage actually make money from photography? r/photography • 7d ago There are so many photography
influencers on YouTube. What percentage actually make money from photography? 101 upvotes · 158 comments “NO PROFESSIONAL PHOTOGRAPHY“ r/photography • 1y ago “NO PROFESSIONAL
PHOTOGRAPHY“ 8K upvotes · 1K comments Finding great photography without Instagram, part four: commercial photography agencies r/photography • 4y ago Finding great photography
without Instagram, part four: commercial photography agencies 390 upvotes · 33 comments for people who now have photography as a career, how did you do it? r/photography • 10mo ago
for people who now have photography as a career, how did you do it? 33 upvotes · 44 comments I’m 31 years old and plan on switching to a career in video editing with no degree. Is
this a sound plan to get my foot in the door? r/editors • 5y ago I’m 31 years old and plan on switching to a career in video editing with no degree. Is this a sound plan to get my
foot in the door? 78 upvotes · 85 comments Is professional photography financially sustainable without family support? r/photography • 3mo ago Is professional photography
financially sustainable without family support? 26 upvotes · 71 comments What do you make as a freelance camera operator/assistant/DP versus a salaried employee in the same role in
NYC? r/videography • 5y ago What do you make as a freelance camera operator/assistant/DP versus a salaried employee in the same role in NYC? 13 upvotes · 4 comments how i got my
first photography job r/photography • 8mo ago how i got my first photography job 33 upvotes · 11 comments I'm a new photographer and need advice on marketing r/photography • 7mo
ago I'm a new photographer and need advice on marketing 2 upvotes · 16 comments For those who work a full time job and do photography on the side, what do you work in?
r/photography • 1y ago For those who work a full time job and do photography on the side, what do you work in? 81 upvotes · 191 comments Thinking of quitting my job to pursue
photography full time. Would love to hear from anyone who's taken the leap. r/photography • 7mo ago Thinking of quitting my job to pursue photography full time. Would love to hear
from anyone who's taken the leap. 83 upvotes · 111 comments Former Photography Students - How's it going for you now? r/photography • 9mo ago Former Photography Students - How's it
going for you now? 45 upvotes · 11 comments Advice starting a photography/videography business LLC r/videography • 5y ago Advice starting a photography/videography business LLC 41
upvotes · 29 comments Struggling to present photography meaningfully on social media r/photography • 5mo ago Struggling to present photography meaningfully on social media 47
upvotes · 60 comments View Post in 繁體中文 Tiếng Việt 日本語 Français See more Community Info Section r/photography Join Photography /r/photography is a place to politely discuss the
tools, technique, art and culture of photography and to post topics that would be of interest to other photographers. Show more Public Top Posts Reddit reReddit: Top posts of
November 16, 2021 Reddit reReddit: Top posts of November 2021 Reddit reReddit: Top posts of 2021 Reddit Rules Privacy Policy User Agreement Your Privacy Choices Accessibility
Reddit, Inc. © 2026. All rights reserved. Collapse Navigation Skip to main content What extra customer services do you provide to your clients that separate you from the rest? :
r/WeddingPhotography r/WeddingPhotography Search in r/WeddingPhotography Get App Log In Expand user menu Skip to NavigationSkip to Right Sidebar Back Go to WeddingPhotography
r/WeddingPhotography • 3y ago OkOne2171 What extra customer services do you provide to your clients that separate you from the rest? In the beginning of my career as a wedding
photographer, I used to give my couples a cheap but decent bottle of wine around $10 (about 10 years ago) in a paper wine bag rubber stamped with my logo. And a thank you card
after the wedding and a happy anniversary card with a fridge magnet photo frame, which they seemed to love. I stopped doing these when I got busy, but I want to start doing
something like it again to . Does anyone do something similar? Upvote 24 Downvote 64 Go to comments Share Join the conversation Sort by: Best Search Comments Expand comment search
Comments Section clickyarse • 3y ago I used to do a lot but I found nobody actually gave a crap what I was doing and the effort was wasted. Now I focus on over delivering what they
paid me for in a more than timely manner and that usually does the trick. Upvote 74 Downvote Reply Award Share Thuller • 3y ago Most grounded and realistic answer here. People
don't buy photography services to get some rando gifts. Be great value. Do a great job, be pleasant to be around when working. Overdeliver when it comes to quality. Generally, just
be a great photographer. Rest is just an overrated and unimportant fluff. Upvote 24 Downvote Reply Award Share nachonachoooo • 3y ago Agreed! I was married a few years ago and got
a bunch of “stuff” from our vendor team. It was all shoved in a box/tossed! Upvote 5 Downvote Reply Award Share [deleted] • 3y ago • Edited 3y ago Everyone who is professional is
delivering what they paid for in a timely manner, that should be the default. The gifts or thank you cards that come after are just a small, inexpensive way to show your appreciate
for the couple hiring you. Through our 6 months to a year of talking and planning, then the wedding itself (and sometimes an after party), I get to know my couples pretty well.
Many of them eventually become friends. But once I do have a sense of who they are, I send them a gift that I think they'll actually value. Sometimes it's a 16x20 print of their
favorite image, sometimes it's a gift card to their favorite coffeehouse with $50 on it, sometimes it's a random duck knickknack I found while wandering around a city that I know
the bride might love because she told me she adores ducks. The point isn't to just send a random thing, but to make it meaningful. I've come to client's homes five years after
their wedding and saw that they still had the card I wrote them on their refrigerator, or the print I sent them is still front and center on their living room wall. If you don't
find the idea of sending a note or gift after the wedding meaningful, then that's perfectly OK too. Not everyone is sentimental in the same ways. But for me, it's a nice gesture
for the people who not only paid me thousands of dollars to work for them, but trusted me to document a special day in their lives that can never be photographed again. clickyarse
• 3y ago I would debate about the professional thing. Sometimes photographers are very lax. I try to deliver within half the minimum time I say I will as a standard and go above
and beyond in multiple other ways. I’m glad your clients appreciate your gifts. My clients didn’t. I did everything from Polaroid photo books at the end of the night, to sending
them their favourite photo as a framed print or canvas, to gift cards and date nights, to custom gifts and nothing really landed with my clients. My clients in general are warm,
caring people but they didn’t seem to care about this stuff. They cared that I went above and beyond past what the expected of me in the job I was hired to do. Past what they ever
thought a vendor would do. That’s the only thing in 12 years that has consistently worked as a thank you to my couples for hiring me. My couples have also become friends in many
cases, but their “love language” is a bit different and they don’t seem to resonate with physical objects as gifts (cards, sure) and that’s totally fine. 4 more replies OkOne2171
OP • 3y ago If I remember correctly I think I quit sending gifts/cards once I started booking 30 weddings or so. Some couples used to do posts on facebook/instagram with my
anniversary cards but it was rare. I think that's why I stopped sending gifts. No feed back = no fun. rocketshipjesus • 3y ago I do this too and I send a thank you card after I
deliver the files. My clients hang them up on their fridge because it's beautiful and represents my brand! 2 more replies Chickenandchippy • 3y ago Honestly gifts/ tokens at a
wedding can be easily go under appreciated because everyone is gifting. While it isn’t a service per se, my husband and I go out of our way to be incredibly attentive to the bride
and groom on the day and pick up a lot of the bridal party’s slack (which they always greatly appreciate). One time we did a wedding with a very awful chaotic family who just
started fighting and quarreling over “delays” and not even the groom picked up that his wife needed consoling. My husband saw she was on the verge of tears and he put his camera
down and asked her if she was okay and started cracking jokes to cheer her up, very discretely so no one else would notice. On the day I think having an extra shoulder to lean on
is probably the best added value you can give. [deleted] • 3y ago u/Zola avatar u/Zola • Promoted If planning your wedding feels like a second job…we’re here to help. From your
wedding website and RSVPs to your registry and guest updates, it’s *all* in one place. Set it up in minutes at Zola.com. If planning your wedding feels like a second job…we’re here
to help. From your wedding website and RSVPs to your registry and guest updates, it’s *all* in one place. Set it up in minutes at Zola.com. If planning your wedding feels like a
second job…we’re here to help. From your wedding website and RSVPs to your registry and guest updates, it’s *all* in one place. Set it up in minutes at Zola.com. welcome.zola.com
Sign Up LimitedGenius • 3y ago My husband is my behind the scenes assistant, and clients loooove it. He does everything from bustling/floofing dresses, fixing ties and bow ties,
making sure everyone’s boutonniere is on point, sews up rips, provides hydration packets, pretty much anything to make the couples’ lives easier on the day. I demonstrate poses on
him, he helps couples up rocky terrain during adventure elopements, and I’m sure I’m forgetting 1000 more things. While my clients love the photos they receive, they are especially
grateful for the extra help on the day of their wedding/elopement. mimosaholdtheoj • 3y ago This is so sweet! My husband recently mentioned he thinks he needs to pick up
photography in order to get to spend time with me in fun places - I almost like this better! LimitedGenius • 3y ago It works for us, and as much as I sometimes wish I could get him
