fascinating and you really learned sonething from it. 74 upvotes · 59 comments Mike White confirms Survivor cameos on The White Lotus S4. r/survivor • 2mo ago Mike White confirms
Survivor cameos on The White Lotus S4. r/survivor - Mike White confirms Survivor cameos on The White Lotus S4. youtu 119 upvotes · 54 comments Legendary Celebrity
Interviews/Profiles r/Fauxmoi • 5y ago Legendary Celebrity Interviews/Profiles 352 upvotes · 119 comments Is this interview assignment too intense? r/ProductMarketing • 1mo ago Is
this interview assignment too intense? 12 upvotes · 20 comments Best way to book a double on Celebrity if sailing solo r/Cruise • 5d ago Best way to book a double on Celebrity if
sailing solo 13 upvotes · 14 comments View Post in हिन्दी Русский Français 日本語 简体中文 See more Community Info Section r/Journalism Join Journalism r/journalism is a community focused
on the industry and practice of journalism (from the classroom to the newsroom). Public Reddit Rules Privacy Policy User Agreement Your Privacy Choices Accessibility Reddit, Inc. ©
2026. All rights reserved. Collapse Navigation Skip to main content I've been asked to photograph a celebrity on a TV show but I won't be compensated : r/photography r/photography
Search in r/photography Get App Log In Expand user menu Skip to NavigationSkip to Right Sidebar Back Go to photography r/photography • 4y ago Santos_L_Halper I've been asked to
photograph a celebrity on a TV show but I won't be compensated Discussion I mostly just want to vent real quick. I was asked to photograph a celebrity that hosts a reality TV show
during an episode of one of their shows. While we were talking about the show and how things would work it was revealed I wouldn't have ownership of the photos. Which is a bummer
but at least the pay day should be nice, right? When I asked about compensation they said they have a reality TV budget so they don't have anything they can give me, but I'd be
mic'd up and made to look nice for tv. I said I'd have to see something in writing guaranteeing a kind edit on the and a kind edit of the photos so I don't look bad, what ownership
of the photographs will look like, and I asked them to go to their bosses and try to find money. I feel foolish because it's not every day I'm asked to photograph something so
major. But at the same time, fuck all of that, right? I have a full time photography job, I've photographed celebrities, and I've been on tv. All I care about from this is the
money. But also, even though I've done all these things before, it couldn't hurt to do it again. I feel crazy gearing up to say no, but money is the key thing for me right now. We
met on Friday and they haven't sent me any info. The shoot is Tuesday. I work where they're filming so I'm going to be there regardless but I feel like I just can't do this for no
money. What would you do? Edit As of now the shoot is cancelled until they can sort some things out. The CEO of my company had no idea the show was asking for so much, apparently
he was blindsided as well. They also asked two people I work with to dress THREE sets for them to shoot on here as well as use our warehouse staff to move shit around and they
aren't offering anyone anything. The original plan was basically an interview and a walk around, the only just added on all this ambitious stuff on Friday so now the whole company
is like "you should be paying us for all of this " I had no idea NOBODY was getting paid. Which is insanity. Edit 2 The shoot is back on but I emailed them that I can't agree to
anything until I see it in writing and they are terms that I agree with. So as of now I'm just here to assist, other than that they'll have to find someone else. Final edit They're
going with their own photographer that they have on staff after I said I need to see stuff in writing. Perfectly fine by me, I'm still being paid by my job to be here and I'm happy
to help in that regard. The shoot was just too extra. Thanks for allowing me to vent. Archived post. New comments cannot be posted and votes cannot be cast. Upvote 729 Downvote 222
Go to comments Share Sort by: Best Search Comments Expand comment search Comments Section Santasotherbrother • 4y ago • Edited 4y ago The person asking you, is getting paid. Their
boss is getting paid. Santasotherbrother • 4y ago • Edited 4y ago Watch this: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=mj5IV23g-fE Change "writer" to Photog. ***May contain bad words.
u/lordthundercheeks avatar lordthundercheeks • 4y ago I want "I don't take a piss without getting paid" on my tombstone. 2 more replies u/7LeagueBoots avatar 7LeagueBoots • 4y ago
I work in environmental protection and this is a bit problem for us too. Lots of folks will pay to "volunteer", so a lot of organizations do low quality work relying on volunteers,
which reduces the jobs for professionals, and results in poorer quality work and results. u/liaminwales avatar liaminwales • 4y ago Amazing, wish there was a bot to post this each
time free work is used in a post. 3 more replies 13 more replies 11 more replies NotQuiteGoodEnougher • 4y ago Not sign the agreement. My landlord/ mortgage Co doesn't accept
"likes" as payment. If they don't have a budget; don't hire gig photographers. And don't look back. No one gives a shit that you photographed XYZ for free. They stop listening
after Free and will pay you the same consideration. Santos_L_Halper OP • 4y ago Yeah, I'm 100% not doing it for free. Thankfully I'm at the point where the only time I work for
free is when it's a project of my own design and I'm doing it because I want to. The company I work for is being showcased in this episode, but my company doesn't pay me for this
kind of photography and I was never consulted or expected to do this. This is all the producer's idea. My general manager, thankfully, has been saying "don't feel pressured to do
this, this is not your job." u/FijianBandit avatar FijianBandit • 4y ago So listen to your GM - see if you can do him right and maybe he will barter this into a deal or make sure
your considered into it so you can still get paid. 5 more replies u/pcs3rd avatar pcs3rd • 4y ago But why don't you just convert exposure to Bitcoin then your local currency?/s 3
more replies 1 more reply u/OniOdisCornukaydis avatar OniOdisCornukaydis • 4y ago I did work for reality shows. I got almost four hundred a day to pretend to be a paparazzi for
some of the bigger cooking shows. Reality people will walk all over you forever. Say no. $300 a day minimum, non-negotiable. Trust me on this. If you work for free even once, they
will never pay you. Ever. Santos_L_Halper OP • 4y ago This show is not big but the company that owns it is a massive media conglomerate so I know the pictures I take could end up
being seen by many, many thousands. And this is NYC, this kind of photography is not cheap. I had $2k in my mind with $1k at the low end. Especially if I don't get the photos in
the end, they kinda have to buy that right from me in my mind. k1ller_speret • 4y ago I have worked for shows that worked with less than $100k budget, and they paid more than $400
per crew member. I’m well damn sure they can afford you. You need to actually benefit in this u/lfcmadness avatar lfcmadness • 4y ago No one will look at that photo and wonder who
took it, the "exposure" is meaningless in reality. ClikeX • 4y ago company that owns it is a massive media conglomerate So the show is not some small indie project that you would
do bro bono. It's owned by a massive corporation making money off it. You just hand them more money by doing anything for free. 2 more replies u/iLiftHeavyThingsUp avatar
iLiftHeavyThingsUp • 4y ago The thousands will not care about it. They won't hire it. You don't get the photos and you don't get payment? No. u/VladPatton avatar VladPatton • 4y
ago It’s not even worth taking the subway to the city for zero payment. I wouldn’t do it. 5 more replies 8 more replies u/-ARIDA- avatar -ARIDA- • 4y ago "Reality tv budget" !?!? I
briefly worked in reality tv, and let me tell you they wasted money on ALL SORTS of dumb shit. For example, when the shooting crews would submit their expenses, there was tons of
extravagant bullshit they would invoice and the company paid it all without blinking. Or how about this: Every Friday we had something called Wine O'clock, where all the staff
would gather in the break room and drink wine while eating charcuterie. All the company's dime. And it wasn't a huge company. Or I remember there was this one episode where a
lady's bra was showing through her shirt, and they spent thousands and thousands of dollars fixing it in post. I don't know for sure about the size of this company you're talking
about, but I guarantee you if they are dealing with celebrities and stuff they definitely definitely have it in the budget to put together a little bit of money for a photographer.
Skip one or two Wine O'clocks, there you go. Reality TV companies, even little ones, are making bank. I promise you. Subcriminal • 4y ago I was someone who literally worked with
photography for reality TV shows and we had budget to pay the photographers. This was for shows of every size from Big Brother to some weird show about people who work in
Blackpool. ClikeX • 4y ago Every Friday we had something called Wine O'clock, where all the staff would gather in the break room and drink wine while eating charcuterie. All the
company's dime. Lol, in the Netherlands this is called a vrijmibo (friday afternoon drinks), and most companies do this. You stick around on friday and have drinks and snacks which
are stocked by the company. But to be fair, it's just beers and common snacks. Not expensive wine and a meat selection. patco81 • 4y ago If you work for free, you are the ONLY
party that is doing so. Fuck that. Did you get your camera for free? Memory cards? Batteries? I'm guessing you didn't, so why should they get your services for free? No. Never.
[deleted] • 4y ago Birdhawk • 4y ago Time out. It sounds like you’re being asked to be on camera? So is this a staged photo shoot? Just asking because you’d be mic’d up and that’s
not normal. I’ve shot for TV shows and yeah no ownership is standard but your name is usually in the metadata and is credited in publications most of the time. Good thing is they
will usually let you use the photos you want for your own portfolio after you request it. As far as pay, here’s where I’m confused again. You say you’re in NYC? Is this a union
show? Because if so the union stills photographer should be union I do believe. Either way, they should definitely be paying you. More than the other suggestion of $300. That’s a
full day on set and at least another day doing edits and bothering with a possible file naming protocol, plus uploading. Sometimes you’re required to caption all of them too which
will cost an additional day. And then there’s the question of whether or not the network has a style guide they want you to follow. But again if you’re going to be mic’d and made
camera-ready then this doesn’t sound like a unit stills photographer job so much as they’re using you for some part of the story for that episode. 16 more replies u/tcphoto1 avatar
tcphoto1 • 4y ago Believe me, they have the budget to pay for images and I would not shoot for free. They will use quality images everywhere and for everything. [deleted] • 4y ago
Tell them that's fine. As there is no monetary exchange, you remain the legal copyright holder as the author of the work and will gladly license it to them on a contract for usage
or display rights for $xx for a period of time of "x" at which time they can review a new contract for usage. LaziestKitten • 4y ago If they can't properly compensate you, they
don't have a viable budget and you are not the only one they're doing this to. Don't do them any favours; they're irresponsible producers. Signed, a filmmaker who knows better. New
to Reddit? Create your account and connect with a world of communities. Continue With Phone Number By continuing, you agree to our User Agreement and acknowledge that you
understand the Privacy Policy. Related Answers Section Related Answers Best lenses for portrait photography Choosing the best lens for portrait photography depends on your camera
system, desired aesthetic, and budget, with Redditors frequently recommending 85mm, 50mm, and 70-200mm f/2.8 lenses for their versatility and ability to produce flattering results.
Popular Focal Lengths for Portraits 85mm lenses are widely considered ideal for traditional portraits due to their flattering compression and ability to create beautiful background
blur. "85mm to me is the ideal portrait length." 50mm lenses are praised for their versatility, offering a natural perspective that closely matches human vision and performing well
for both headshots and wider environmental portraits. "My favorite portrait length for most of my work, but I like shooting a lot looser… full body, or horizontal frame waist up."
70-200mm f/2.8 zoom lenses are a highly recommended workhorse, providing excellent versatility for various portrait distances and offering impressive background separation. "To be
honest, and I know it is heavy: the 70-200mm f/2.8 with stabilizing. Versatile, great bokeh, great background separation. Absolutely stunning." Key Considerations for Lens
Selection Aperture Size (f-stop): A wide aperture (e.g., f/1.2, f/1.4, f/1.8, f/2.8) is crucial for achieving the sought-after bokeh effect, blurring the background to make the
subject stand out. "If you want bokeh, you'll need the aperture of f1.4 / 1.8." Prime vs. Zoom Lenses: Prime lenses (fixed focal length) often offer superior image quality and
wider apertures at a lower cost, while zoom lenses provide flexibility in framing without changing lenses. "Prime with low aperture. 35mm or 50mm usually, I prefer shorter focal
lengths" Sensor Size: The camera's sensor size impacts the effective focal length and depth of field. "To talk about a focal length without mentioning the sensor size is
misleading." Advanced and Specialty Lenses 105mm and 135mm lenses are also popular choices for portraits, especially for tighter headshots, offering distinct compression and bokeh
characteristics. "85mm, 105mm, 135mm and 200mm would be most used portrait lens." Sigma and Viltrox produce well-regarded and often more affordable prime lenses that deliver
excellent image quality for portraiture. "The Sigma 56mm f/1.4 is a great portrait lens." Are you looking for lens recommendations for a specific camera brand or type? See Answer
Tips for capturing stunning landscapes How to improve low-light photography skills Essential gear for travel photographers Creative ways to use natural light More posts you may
like How do some photographers make SO MUCH money? r/photography • 5y ago How do some photographers make SO MUCH money? 536 upvotes · 303 comments What celebs do you think call the
paps on themselves the most? r/Fauxmoi • 3y ago What celebs do you think call the paps on themselves the most? 365 upvotes · 369 comments How does one break into shooting
celebrities/personalities/artists/etc.? r/photography • 2y ago How does one break into shooting celebrities/personalities/artists/etc.? 15 comments I only took photos for the set I
was paid for. Was that wrong? r/photography • 6mo ago I only took photos for the set I was paid for. Was that wrong? 266 upvotes · 160 comments Is it worth getting into
fashion/commercial photography industry? r/photography • 10y ago Is it worth getting into fashion/commercial photography industry? 40 upvotes · 36 comments My employer isn't paying
me for the work I did r/ontario • 4y ago My employer isn't paying me for the work I did 6 upvotes · 11 comments Thinking of quitting my job to pursue photography full time. Would
love to hear from anyone who's taken the leap. r/photography • 7mo ago Thinking of quitting my job to pursue photography full time. Would love to hear from anyone who's taken the
leap. 83 upvotes · 111 comments Why do actors etc. attend conventions? Are they contractually obliged to? Do they actually enjoy it?.. r/comiccon • 5y ago Why do actors etc. attend
conventions? Are they contractually obliged to? Do they actually enjoy it?.. 23 upvotes · 23 comments How much do top photographers charge for commercial photography? r/photography
• 2y ago How much do top photographers charge for commercial photography? 75 upvotes · 100 comments Does anyone else find that the more you learn about photography, the harder it
is to just enjoy taking pictures? r/photography • 2mo ago Does anyone else find that the more you learn about photography, the harder it is to just enjoy taking pictures? 209
upvotes · 63 comments Curious, do actors that make appearances get paid? r/comiccon • 5mo ago Curious, do actors that make appearances get paid? 67 upvotes · 49 comments How much
do you make? r/photography • 4y ago How much do you make? 518 upvotes · 307 comments Boss expected me to keep doing social media work "for the fun of it" despite telling me I'd get
compensated for it. r/WorkReform • 4y ago Boss expected me to keep doing social media work "for the fun of it" despite telling me I'd get compensated for it. 487 upvotes · 66
comments How do I get my shots to tell a story? r/photography • 2mo ago How do I get my shots to tell a story? 24 upvotes · 42 comments Photographer Scam Alert r/photography • 4mo
ago Photographer Scam Alert 28 upvotes · 8 comments Client citing themselves as photographer in post instead of the actual photographer r/photography • 2mo ago Client citing
themselves as photographer in post instead of the actual photographer 78 upvotes · 50 comments Company wants to redo head shots. Infuriated. r/photography • 4y ago Company wants to
redo head shots. Infuriated. 527 upvotes · 218 comments The difficulties of getting older as a photographer r/photography • 16d ago The difficulties of getting older as a
photographer 341 upvotes · 154 comments Photography Licensing Fee - No permission! r/photography • 2mo ago Photography Licensing Fee - No permission! 47 upvotes · 47 comments There
are so many photography influencers on YouTube. What percentage actually make money from photography? r/photography • 7d ago There are so many photography influencers on YouTube.
What percentage actually make money from photography? 101 upvotes · 158 comments Next time I'm asked to lend money or buy something for them by a stranger, I'd like to film them
making the promise to pay me back by a time limit, otherwise the video's going on YouTube. Your thoughts, please? r/aspergers • 4y ago Next time I'm asked to lend money or buy
something for them by a stranger, I'd like to film them making the promise to pay me back by a time limit, otherwise the video's going on YouTube. Your thoughts, please? 21
comments UPDATE: My boss won't let me quit to see my sick fiance r/antiwork • 4y ago UPDATE: My boss won't let me quit to see my sick fiance 10 upvotes · 18 comments I did my boss
a favor and it ended up costing me $100, I'm quitting tomorrow. r/antiwork • 4y ago I did my boss a favor and it ended up costing me $100, I'm quitting tomorrow. 247 upvotes · 41
comments Co-worker left and I’m taking on their workload. Should I ask for a pay increase if I’m also looking to leave? r/careerguidance • 4y ago Co-worker left and I’m taking on
their workload. Should I ask for a pay increase if I’m also looking to leave? 538 upvotes · 209 comments Has anyone been able to escape the photographer's curse... happened to me
yesterday r/photography • 7mo ago Has anyone been able to escape the photographer's curse... happened to me yesterday 576 upvotes · 228 comments View Post in 繁體中文 Русский Português
(Brasil) 简体中文 See more Community Info Section r/photography Join Photography /r/photography is a place to politely discuss the tools, technique, art and culture of photography and
to post topics that would be of interest to other photographers. Show more Public Top Posts Reddit reReddit: Top posts of October 24, 2022 Reddit reReddit: Top posts of October
2022 Reddit reReddit: Top posts of 2022 Reddit Rules Privacy Policy User Agreement Your Privacy Choices Accessibility Reddit, Inc. © 2026. All rights reserved. Collapse Navigation
Skip to main content How does one break into shooting celebrities/personalities/artists/etc.? : r/photography r/photography Search in r/photography Get App Log In Expand user menu
Skip to NavigationSkip to Right Sidebar Back Go to photography r/photography • 2y ago memoryman89 How does one break into shooting celebrities/personalities/artists/etc.?
Discussion I've been shooting fashion and portraits for about 13 years now professionally, but as of late have been really wanting to break more into celebrity, personality,
artist, etc. portraits- just seems more fulfilling and interesting. And I'm not talking about at events, but actual portraits. Wondering if anyone can offer any advice on how it
might be possible to migrate to photographing more that type of stuff. Also would appreciate any feedback from anyone who does shoot that kind of thing. Thanks in advance! Archived
post. New comments cannot be posted and votes cannot be cast. Upvote 0 Downvote 15 Go to comments Share Sort by: Best Search Comments Expand comment search Comments Section
MattJFarrell • 2y ago I can't give you specifics, but my understanding is that it comes down to access. Either a client or a personal relationship is a bigger factor than talent.
Used to be that magazines could get you that access, but they're barely a thing anymore. Upvote 17 Downvote Award Share Ill_Reading1881 • 2y ago Yep. People used to ask my bar how
we would get certain celebrity cameos. The answer is that the bar's owner seems to have the number of every famous/wealthy lesbian in America, and would literally ask them to show
up. And that's a rolodex of numbers acquired over 30 years in business Upvote 6 Downvote Award Share panamanRed58 • 2y ago The question begs to be asked, do you live in an area
with a substantial entertainment industry? What is your personal experience with those business? Upvote 8 Downvote Award Share Ill_Reading1881 • 2y ago I'm curious what exactly
makes you think that the reason portraits aren't exciting to you is WHO you're photographing. There's no reason to think that you would make any different photos just because the
person you're photographing is well known. I do know friends who've done celebrity portraits, but none of them went into it trying to do that. Most of them only photographed
celebrities bc it was a friend who suddenly BECAME a known artist. Others, they got their celebrity clients by being to their service in other ways: baristas, bartenders, event
organizers. Or, one of the photographers I've been following since I was a teen went on tour with Beyoncé. She got the gig, not because her photos were THE BEST but bc she shot on
film, including super 8. All the super 8 video you see in Homecoming? That was her, bc she was the only somewhat seasoned photographer with that niche (and a Black woman,
nonetheless!) But also, I can't see any upsides to changing your niche like that. Most of these influencers/celebs aren't paying for those sessions, if they are paid they're
commissioned by publications, or by a company they're working with. And either way, you're likely going to have LESS creative control. And then if you do photograph someone
famous....what? It's a gig, regardless who's in front of the camera, and after it's over, you'll still need to find another one. u/AngusLynch09 avatar AngusLynch09 • 2y ago Profile
Badge for the Achievement Top 1% Commenter Top 1% Commenter Funny thing is, people who see "celebrity" work as extra exciting are the exact people artists and managers don't want
to be working with. u/AdventurousFlow355 avatar AdventurousFlow355 • 9mo ago BIG facts. u/liaminwales avatar liaminwales • 2y ago Helps if your in a media hub, simply people you
know & being dependable. I know people who got in to TV from working on indie films, the point is to network and show your dependable. 4AM starts and 5 hours of sleep for a week
filter out a lot of people fast. u/bigmarkco avatar bigmarkco • 2y ago Do you want to photography them for money? Or are you wanting to be more artistically fufilled? Because if
its the latter, then the best way to go about it is to ask them. Start out small with local celebrities/artists/personalities, people likely to not have agents or managers and
would be fine with a direct approach. Show them your portfolio. If its the former though, thats more tricky. It then comes down to...what are you offering? Who are you? Why would a
celebrity pay money to work with you? And that might mean you've got to take the first route anyway, shoot some low level celebrities to build a portfolio, start to explore your
style and become more distinct, and start to earn a reputation. Reach out to editorial outlets and say you are available. I developed a reputation as an environmental portrait
photograper, so I had a few international magazines reach out to me to photograph some local "celebs." Its one direction you could take it. But its a crapshoot. Maybe get good
enough to get representation, then your rep could help create opportunites. But you have to figure out what your end goal is here first. LicarioSpin • 2y ago Like for paid
editorial work? Do you live in a metropolitan area or close to one? If you need to develop a portfolio for this kind of portraiture, I'd start out by doing a few tests. Find
subjects like actors and artists at local theaters and schools, or guilds. If you already have the portfolio, I'd market your work on the web, social media, etc, and also approach
local talent agencies for actors. Also, most cities have those cool small newspapers (or now digital issues only) - Village Voice kind of thing - might be a good way to establish
yourself with these people. Maybe even some kind of wanted ad (do these exist anymore?) for a few free sessions with actors and artists. Long ago, in Chicago, I did some of this
and it was really word of mouth. Turtles96 • 2y ago i feel like its you gotta know people that knows people X4dow • 2y ago Profile Badge for the Achievement Top 1% Commenter Top 1%
Commenter Either work for agencies that work with mags or become a pap [deleted] • 2y ago Everytime I read one of those headlines in this reddit, I'm shocked... until I see that
it's the photography reddit. u/jarabara avatar jarabara • 2y ago u/goodolmarlz u/Conor_J_Sweeney avatar Conor_J_Sweeney • 2y ago Profile Badge for the Achievement Top 1% Commenter
Top 1% Commenter The secret is nepotism. anonymindia • 2y ago Approach influencers. Start small, people who are gathering a following but aren't super famous. Maybe offer to work
pro bono for credit. I know this sub hates that but that's how 3 of my professional photographer friends got into the big league. Once you get credits for photography on their
posts and you start getting second hand traffic on your profile, start approaching more people and this time ask for pay. But now, you can also approach bigger influencers and ask
them for a shoot for credit. Then you move on to brands and if your work is good, the celeb teams will take notice and may ask you directly. Or you can shoot the brands and they'll
get the celebs to endorse their brand. New to Reddit? Create your account and connect with a world of communities. Continue With Phone Number By continuing, you agree to our User
Agreement and acknowledge that you understand the Privacy Policy. Related Answers Section Related Answers Tips for breaking into celebrity photography How to become a famous
photographer Best lenses for portrait photography Tips for capturing stunning landscapes How to improve low-light photography skills More posts you may like Any newspaper assets /
collage plugins / templates you guys like for edits regarding historical events, pop culture etc? r/editors • 2y ago Any newspaper assets / collage plugins / templates you guys
like for edits regarding historical events, pop culture etc? 2 upvotes "Celebrities" that are IFChildfree? r/IFchildfree • 19d ago "Celebrities" that are IFChildfree? 81 upvotes ·
31 comments The Greatest Portrait Photographer of All Time r/photography • 2y ago The Greatest Portrait Photographer of All Time r/photography - The Greatest Portrait Photographer
of All Time youtube 6 comments Who is your favorite PORTRAIT photographer? r/photography • 10y ago Who is your favorite PORTRAIT photographer? 13 upvotes · 31 comments Who are some
famous photographers that are worth looking into? r/AskReddit • 8y ago Who are some famous photographers that are worth looking into? 2 upvotes · 3 comments Name a celebrity that
also has a famous relative. r/FamilyFeud • 15d ago Name a celebrity that also has a famous relative. 37 upvotes · 368 comments How do you get better at tasting notes? r/wine • 4y
ago How do you get better at tasting notes? 23 upvotes · 21 comments I've been asked to photograph a celebrity on a TV show but I won't be compensated r/photography • 4y ago I've
been asked to photograph a celebrity on a TV show but I won't be compensated 729 upvotes · 222 comments A few Celebrity portraits as practice r/ProCreate • 5y ago A few Celebrity
portraits as practice r/ProCreate - A few Celebrity portraits as practice 4 6 upvotes · 2 comments Those who have been intimate with a famous person. How was the experience? Did it
change how you see them as a actor/singer/artist? r/AskReddit • 28d ago Those who have been intimate with a famous person. How was the experience? Did it change how you see them as
a actor/singer/artist? 2 upvotes · 32 comments And they said my favourite celebrity wouldn’t be in the files r/Kafka • 3mo ago And they said my favourite celebrity wouldn’t be in
the files r/Kafka - And they said my favourite celebrity wouldn’t be in the files 152 upvotes · 11 comments Photography by famous people r/photography • 3y ago Photography by
famous people 1 upvote · 10 comments Celebrity Entitlement In Action r/TonyZaretOfficial • 8mo ago Celebrity Entitlement In Action r/TonyZaretOfficial - Celebrity Entitlement In
Action 317 upvotes · 8 comments How much do you make? r/photography • 4y ago How much do you make? 518 upvotes · 307 comments Question for those who have worked with high-profile
luxury/celebrity photographers: r/WeddingPhotography • 3y ago Question for those who have worked with high-profile luxury/celebrity photographers: 22 upvotes · 44 comments
Celebrity Photography Studio r/photography • 4mo ago Celebrity Photography Studio 12 comments How do People start Art Commissions? Or live off Art in General? r/Artadvice • 2y ago
How do People start Art Commissions? Or live off Art in General? 1 upvote · 3 comments A movie star with a 72-year career r/japanpics • 22d ago A movie star with a 72-year career
r/japanpics - A movie star with a 72-year career 139 upvotes · 16 comments What celebs do you think call the paps on themselves the most? r/Fauxmoi • 3y ago What celebs do you
think call the paps on themselves the most? 365 upvotes · 369 comments Celebrity Photos by Photographer Dave Benett 📸 r/popculturechat • 3y ago Celebrity Photos by Photographer
Dave Benett 📸 r/popculturechat - Celebrity Photos by Photographer Dave Benett 📸 17 418 upvotes · 40 comments Will we ever see "superstar" photographers again? r/photography • 2y
ago Will we ever see "superstar" photographers again? 129 upvotes · 166 comments How to Become a Celebrity Portrait Photographer ft. Chris Buck r/photography • 8y ago How to Become
a Celebrity Portrait Photographer ft. Chris Buck r/photography - How to Become a Celebrity Portrait Photographer ft. Chris Buck youtube 72 upvotes · 5 comments Famous people who
are also photographers r/photography • 12y ago Famous people who are also photographers 8 upvotes · 45 comments Celebrity or you? r/BunnyTrials • 2mo ago Celebrity or you? 161
upvotes · 760 comments View Post in 繁體中文 Русский Português (Brasil) 日本語 See more Community Info Section r/photography Join Photography /r/photography is a place to politely discuss
the tools, technique, art and culture of photography and to post topics that would be of interest to other photographers. Show more Public Top Posts Reddit reReddit: Top posts of
March 12, 2024 Reddit reReddit: Top posts of March 2024 Reddit reReddit: Top posts of 2024 Reddit Rules Privacy Policy User Agreement Your Privacy Choices Accessibility Reddit,
Inc. © 2026. All rights reserved. Collapse Navigation Skip to main content Famous people who are also photographers : r/photography r/photography Search in r/photography Get App
Log In Expand user menu Skip to NavigationSkip to Right Sidebar Back Go to photography r/photography • 12y ago [deleted] Famous people who are also photographers Do you know of a
famous actor/musician/athlete/whatever who's also a good photographer? Post here! Archived post. New comments cannot be posted and votes cannot be cast. Upvote 8 Downvote 45 Go to
comments Share u/OpenAI avatar OpenAI • Promoted Edit photos and remove background people or objects with ChatGPT. Sign Up chatgpt.com Thumbnail image: Edit photos and remove
background people or objects with ChatGPT. Sort by: Best Comments Section u/HouseOfFourDoors avatar HouseOfFourDoors • 12y ago Adam Savage loves cameras and everything to do with
them. Upvote 11 Downvote Award Share [deleted] • 12y ago Go on YouTube and look for the series called Capture. They have a celebrity every episode. Norman Reedus, Kevin Bacon,
Aaron Eckhart etc Upvote 9 Downvote Award Share u/aeturnum avatar aeturnum • 12y ago I know Louis CK has an M9 he really likes. I recall seeing some of his work from when he
visited troops in the middle east and thinking he was good, but I don't recall where I saw it. u/thechangbang avatar thechangbang • 12y ago it was on his website, but he took it
down since. I do know that he prefers shooting with an M(6), as he prefers film. 2 more replies u/COLLEGE_FRAT_GUY avatar COLLEGE_FRAT_GUY • 12y ago Tom from MySpace posts some
pretty incredible photos on his Instagram, which I assume he took. 4 more replies kickstand • 12y ago 30 Celebrity Photographers who are actually celebrities with links Leonard
Nimoy Bryan Adams Jeff Bridges Moby Henry Winkler Stanley Kubrick Ben Folds Matthew Modine Brendan Fraser Tyra Banks Kenny Rogers Gina Lollobrigida Helena Christiansen MIchael
Stipe Dennis Hopper Viggo Mortensen Aaron Eckhart Seal Dizzee Rascal Mick Fleetwood Michael Madsen Lenny Kravitz Andy Summers Brad Pitt Kyle MacLachlan David Byrne Lou Reed Graham
Nash Melissa Auf der Maur Lynda McCartney ChiefBromden • 12y ago Tyra Banks I'ma reserve judgement until I see something she's shot...but I'd really really love to see what she's
shot. Lou Reed as much as his music is iconic, I was underwhelmed by his phototgraphy. Austingd • 12y ago Her mom was a photographer, and she's spent her entire working life around
photographers, so I think the chances are good that she's picked it up at least as a hobby. Unfortunately finding proof would be suited for a better internet sleuth than me.
u/conortakespix avatar conortakespix • 12y ago She's been the photographer on a few episode of America's Next Top Model. She's actually very good. 1 more reply themaryelle • 12y
ago Nikki Sixx - he's really quite amazing. http://nsixxfoto.tumblr.com Interesting interview with him:
http://blog.leica-camera.com/photographers/interviews/nikki-sixx-one-step-up-from-the-abyss-part-1/ u/Moice avatar Moice • 12y ago Damn. Who knew? 1 more reply u/alohadave avatar
alohadave • 12y ago Ashton Kutcher mrdat • 12y ago alohadave, I know you! u/DatAperture avatar DatAperture • 12y ago Brad Pitt did a series on Angelina Jolie. u/stockadobe avatar
u/stockadobe • Promoted Edit faster than ever with a new collection of powerful AI tools. Learn More stock.adobe.com Thumbnail image: Edit faster than ever with a new collection of
powerful AI tools. [deleted] OP • 12y ago Actor Jeff Bridges is a pretty good photographer. He often shoots with a Widelux panoramic camera. Professional skateboarder Arto Saari
has great stuff as well. He mainly uses a Leica. u/bleasy avatar bleasy • 12y ago Goddamit the one and only celeb photographer I like is Arto Saari and you took him. But yes one of
my favourites, big inspiration on my own skate photography. 2 more replies OnlyOnceOccluded • 12y ago Leonard Nimoy did more things than sing dubious songs about hobbits. Who knew?
u/Smiley_Dafe avatar Smiley_Dafe • 12y ago Jeff Garlin from Curb Your Enthusiasm is really into it - he even produced that Vivien Maier documentary 'Finding Vivien Maier'. 1 more
reply u/cameronrad avatar cameronrad • 12y ago • Edited 12y ago Everyone forgetting about Bryan Adams or Dennis Hopper? http://bryanadamsphotography.com [deleted] • 12y ago Drew
Carey has shot at the World Cup and other soccer stuff under pseudonym Brooks Parkenridge. themaryelle • 12y ago Norman Reedus (Daryl on The Walking Dead).
http://www.bigbaldhead.com/ u/playground_ai avatar u/playground_ai • Promoted Playground AI has thousands of POD and cricut templates you can edit and personalize! Sign Up
playground.com Clickable image which will reveal the video player: Playground AI has thousands of POD and cricut templates you can edit and personalize! Collapse video player 0:00
/ 0:00 u/E-Step avatar E-Step • 12y ago Stanely Kubrick got started as a photographer & has a lot of great work. u/conortakespix avatar conortakespix • 12y ago Chris Stein (the
guitarist of Blondie) recently had an exhibition here in Los Angeles. His stuff isn't groundbreaking, but it's an exciting look into the underground music scene of NYC in the 70s.
http://www.rollingstone.com/music/news/blondies-chris-stein-reveals-trove-of-rare-seventies-photos-20130812 u/wildkarrde avatar wildkarrde • 12y ago John Mayer is a Leica fan as
well - http://jhnmyr.tumblr.com/ u/AdrianNein avatar AdrianNein • 12y ago Misha Mansoor (summoning u/iambulb) posted some pretty cool photos on his freshly made tumblr blog (link
here), and I didn't know he's also into photography, I thought that was pretty cool because his gear is sick. New to Reddit? Create your account and connect with a world of
communities. Continue With Phone Number By continuing, you agree to our User Agreement and acknowledge that you understand the Privacy Policy. Related Answers Section Related
Answers Famous people who are also photographers Best photographers Best lenses for portrait photography Tips for capturing stunning landscapes How to improve low-light photography
skills More posts you may like Who are the best photographers in history? r/photography • 17y ago Who are the best photographers in history? 24 upvotes · 31 comments u/calottery
avatar calottery • Promoted Dun-dun…dun-dun… look out! JAWS #Scratchers are here. Available now at any California Lottery retailer. #ALittlePlayCanMakeYourDay #CALottery Thumbnail
image: Dun-dun…dun-dun… look out! JAWS #Scratchers are here. Available now at any California Lottery retailer. #ALittlePlayCanMakeYourDay #CALottery calottery.com Learn More
Realestate Photographer r/Charlotte • 9mo ago Realestate Photographer 7 comments Photographer in Italy?! r/weddingplanning • 6y ago Photographer in Italy?! 4 upvotes · 5 comments
Will we ever see "superstar" photographers again? r/photography • 2y ago Will we ever see "superstar" photographers again? 129 upvotes · 166 comments Who would you say the most
famous alive photographer would be? r/photography • 2y ago Who would you say the most famous alive photographer would be? 217 upvotes · 359 comments 23 amazing female photographers
you should know r/photography • 7y ago 23 amazing female photographers you should know r/photography - 23 amazing female photographers you should know wired 37 upvotes · 27
