the photographers that had worked there a few times on social." Be specific in your inquiries: When reaching out, clearly state your desired style, budget, and any specific
requirements to help narrow down potential candidates and avoid sifting through irrelevant responses. "Get specific!!! Ie., 'I am looking for an experienced photographer with a
full website (not just social media) so I can view full galleries of your work.'" Would you like to explore specific wedding photography styles in more detail? See Answer Average
wedding photography costs in the US Unique wedding themes to consider Best ways to personalize wedding vows Creative ideas for wedding favors More posts you may like Do you regret
paying to have a photographer capture your wedding? Not because they were problematic or did a bad job - but because you didn’t feel it was actually worth it after all? r/wedding •
3y ago Do you regret paying to have a photographer capture your wedding? Not because they were problematic or did a bad job - but because you didn’t feel it was actually worth it
after all? 9 upvotes · 55 comments Wedding photographer for small registry office ceremony r/bristol • 2y ago Wedding photographer for small registry office ceremony 3 upvotes · 4
comments Photographer recommendations? r/savannah • 2y ago Photographer recommendations? 4 upvotes · 9 comments Promoted sidebar promoted post thumbnail Does a second photographer
make that much of a difference? r/weddingplanning • 7mo ago Does a second photographer make that much of a difference? 6 upvotes · 13 comments My photographers rates doubled
r/weddingplanning • 16d ago My photographers rates doubled 19 comments Any regrets for spending $10k+ on photography and/or videography? r/weddingplanning • 4mo ago Any regrets for
spending $10k+ on photography and/or videography? 4 upvotes · 20 comments Should I just start an youtube ch, since my job isn't paying so well and I don't think it'll be feasible
for long-term? r/kolkata • 2y ago Should I just start an youtube ch, since my job isn't paying so well and I don't think it'll be feasible for long-term? 10 comments Looking for a
Wedding Photographer for Massachusetts 2022 under $2,500 r/WeddingPhotography • 5y ago Looking for a Wedding Photographer for Massachusetts 2022 under $2,500 15 upvotes · 39
comments Promoted sidebar promoted post thumbnail Wedding photographer recommendations? r/bristol • 5y ago Wedding photographer recommendations? 11 upvotes · 69 comments Engagement
Photographer Recommendation? r/bristol • 10mo ago Engagement Photographer Recommendation? 1 upvote · 11 comments Am I right to feel disappointed with my photographer
r/weddingplanning • 9mo ago Am I right to feel disappointed with my photographer 25 upvotes · 22 comments Calgary Wedding Photographer Rates r/Calgary • 1y ago Calgary Wedding
Photographer Rates 38 comments Unpopular opinion: A lot of “luxury wedding photography” is just average photography wrapped in expensive styling. r/photography • 10mo ago Unpopular
opinion: A lot of “luxury wedding photography” is just average photography wrapped in expensive styling. 593 upvotes · 156 comments Wedding photographer recs (near Bristol)
r/bristol • 10mo ago Wedding photographer recs (near Bristol) 14 comments Do we need a professional photographer? r/weddingplanning • 6mo ago Do we need a professional
photographer? 7 upvotes · 49 comments Wedding photographer cost has me nervous r/weddingplanning • 2y ago Wedding photographer cost has me nervous 5 upvotes · 34 comments What’s a
reasonable price to pay for a wedding photographer? r/weddingplanning • 3y ago What’s a reasonable price to pay for a wedding photographer? 31 upvotes · 69 comments Photographer
missed some big shots r/weddingplanning • 5mo ago Photographer missed some big shots 76 upvotes · 29 comments Photographer cost vs quality? Chicago) r/weddingplanning • 3y ago
Photographer cost vs quality? Chicago) 10 upvotes · 45 comments How did you all pick your wedding photographer? r/weddingplanning • 2y ago How did you all pick your wedding
photographer? 9 upvotes · 44 comments Does anyone else feel like photographers sometimes“ruin the moment”? r/weddingplanning • 6mo ago Does anyone else feel like photographers
sometimes“ruin the moment”? 38 upvotes · 27 comments I regret hiring my wedding photographer r/wedding • 1y ago I regret hiring my wedding photographer 139 upvotes · 135 comments
Curious how much you paid for photographer and videographer and how many hours for each? I’m so overwhelmed with all the various pricing and don’t know what’s normal to spend on a
wedding! r/weddingplanning • 4y ago Curious how much you paid for photographer and videographer and how many hours for each? I’m so overwhelmed with all the various pricing and
don’t know what’s normal to spend on a wedding! 5 upvotes · 19 comments What’s the average everyone is spending on wedding photography? r/weddingplanning • 2y ago What’s the
average everyone is spending on wedding photography? 27 upvotes · 148 comments Is getting a camera worth it for my purpose (see inside for explanation) r/Cameras • 2y ago Is
getting a camera worth it for my purpose (see inside for explanation) 4 upvotes · 10 comments View Post in Tiếng Việt Français Русский 日本語 See more Community Info Section
r/weddingplanning Join WeddingPlanning Discuss your personal wedding planning here! Please be sure to check out our rules. Public Top Posts Reddit reReddit: Top posts of April 13,
2024 Reddit reReddit: Top posts of April 2024 Reddit reReddit: Top posts of 2024 Reddit Rules Privacy Policy User Agreement Your Privacy Choices Accessibility Reddit, Inc. © 2026.
All rights reserved. Collapse Navigation Skip to main content I’m a mid-high end wedding photographer, ask me what you’re scared to ask : r/WeddingsPhilippines
r/WeddingsPhilippines Search in r/WeddingsPhilippines Get App Log In Expand user menu Skip to NavigationSkip to Right Sidebar Back Go to WeddingsPhilippines r/WeddingsPhilippines •
1y ago nonfilmer_filmfan I’m a mid-high end wedding photographer, ask me what you’re scared to ask Photo/Video/Content Creator First off — BE RESPECTFUL Not here looking for
arguments but here to answer queries you might be too shy to ask your photographer regarding pricing, additional fees, shotlists, etc. I don’t speak for ALL PHOTOGRAPHERS in the
Philippines. Let’s create a calm & meaningful conversation! Edit: Will not be recommending suppliers. :) Let’s keep this thread plug-free. Upvote 123 Downvote 105 Go to comments 1
Share u/Zola avatar Zola • Promoted If planning your wedding feels like a second job…we’re here to help. From your wedding website and RSVPs to your registry and guest updates,
it’s *all* in one place. Set it up in minutes at Zola.com. If planning your wedding feels like a second job…we’re here to help. From your wedding website and RSVPs to your registry
and guest updates, it’s *all* in one place. Set it up in minutes at Zola.com. If planning your wedding feels like a second job…we’re here to help. From your wedding website and
RSVPs to your registry and guest updates, it’s *all* in one place. Set it up in minutes at Zola.com. welcome.zola.com Sign Up Join the conversation Sort by: Best Search Comments
Expand comment search Comments Section Familiar-Pace2324 • 1y ago What’s your tip for awkward people or those who are shy in front of the camera? 😊 Upvote 42 Downvote Reply Award
Share u/nonfilmer_filmfan avatar nonfilmer_filmfan OP • 1y ago Always look at your partner ;) always. for solos, if we don’t ask you to look at the camera, always look at something
else — your dress, your bouquet, the outdoors. 1994skeptic • 1y ago First off, thanks for doing this! Do photographers usually accept client requests to tweak the color grading,
tones, or brightness of the edited photos? u/nonfilmer_filmfan avatar nonfilmer_filmfan OP • 1y ago Usually a red flag for us. Some may but mostly don’t. ;) I personally do not
entertain this. I usually recommend other photographers that fit the bill. Takes us years to perfect/get confident with our style and colors, makes us sad when potential clients
ask us to tweak it in any way. Not that deep tho! I’m always happy to hitch clients with great photographers that fits their requests well. 4 more replies u/LoudDot1230 avatar
LoudDot1230 • 1y ago What are the things that couples can do to make your work easier? Also, what is a shotlist and what do you use it for? Btw thanks for doing this! 😊
u/nonfilmer_filmfan avatar nonfilmer_filmfan OP • 1y ago How to make it easier for everyone 1.) Just do you! We love when couples display affection in front of us. Be present and
focus on each other, you can ignore us sometimes. 2.) Don’t be pressured to do things you see online/friends or family’s wedding for your wedding day. 3.) Don’t pressure your
photographers to complete your pegs/inspo/shotlist on the day. Trust me, if priority niyo makumpleto photo pegs niyo, yun lang iisipin namin buong araw, makakalimutan namin na nasa
wedding kami kasi photoshoot na pala ang mangyayari. 4.) Consider a venue with great lighting/aesthetic 5.) Stick to the timeline, make sure you brief your friends and family to
respect your time. 6.) Always inevitable, but always request your guests to stay off their phones and cameras. 7.) Trust us ;) So many more really, if you’re a fellow photographer
reading this, comment your thoughts as well! [deleted] • 1y ago Comment deleted by user u/nonfilmer_filmfan avatar nonfilmer_filmfan OP • 1y ago Wedding where there was no
coord/planner (i love coords/planners! ) friends and family did the styling and it reminded me what weddings really are about. :) the only suppliers were HMUA, Photo, and catering.
Wedding of 30 pax in a french villa-esque venue. I’ve had a couple of bad, best to forget them ;) u/carveryjoie avatar carveryjoie • 1y ago Where is this french villa-esque venue?
Been looking for one 😅 u/slyndrx avatar u/slyndrx • Promoted Learn about Slynd! Click here for Patient Info and additional Important Risk Info. Learn about Slynd! Learn about
Slynd! Learn about Slynd! Learn about Slynd! slynd.com Learn More u/mabulaklak avatar mabulaklak • 1y ago What’s your worst bridezilla experience and how did you and your team
handle it? 4 more replies u/nonfilmer_filmfan avatar nonfilmer_filmfan OP • 1y ago Trying to answer everything! Boring_Account_3 • 1y ago How do you come up with your pricing? Do
you compare with competitors of the same level? u/nonfilmer_filmfan avatar nonfilmer_filmfan OP • 1y ago I am financially savvy so definitely all our investments come first on our
pricing — camera gear, studio rent, internet, marketing, customer service, transportation, workshops/classes, softwares, computers, etc! A lot, just like any other business, we
account for everything. Yes, we sometimes do benchmark prices but sometimes kasi it’s the following that affects pricing. We’re not that famous so really, we’re not delusionally
expensive. ;) GurlyGiraffe • 1y ago How long do you stay for weddings (like from call time to egress) and how do you like your crew meals? What’s a good practice for crew meals?
u/nonfilmer_filmfan avatar nonfilmer_filmfan OP • 1y ago Depends on the client’s need but our max is 12hrs. anything after 12 hrs is overtime with a fee. Di naman kami maarte sa
food pero there are some photographers that are specific sa food (always check your contracts) just make sure na maayos, safe, and on time. Check with them also if they have
allergies or other food restrictions. u/AnyComfortable9276 avatar AnyComfortable9276 • 1y ago Profile Badge for the Achievement Top 1% Commenter Top 1% Commenter might I add sa
food, some has different religion kasi kaya ask din your photovid team. 1 more reply u/shopify avatar u/shopify • Promoted Start dropshipping with Shopify - sell trending products
without inventory, shipping, or warehouse costs. Sign Up shopify.com Clickable image which will reveal the video player: Start dropshipping with Shopify - sell trending products
without inventory, shipping, or warehouse costs. Collapse video player 0:00 / 0:00 t0m0y0 • 1y ago This is a good thread! Saving this so I can read later ;) mellow_snow • 1y ago In
prenup shoots, do you decide on the story flow, or what do you think of the clients who has specific shot requests or have their own story concept or flow. u/nonfilmer_filmfan
avatar nonfilmer_filmfan OP • 1y ago We always meet before hand, know what they both enjoy together. I always remind and discourage them to do a concept that does not reflect what
they are. If it’s something they really want to try, I always remind them to find their comfort zone in it or try it beforehand and see if they like it. :) purpleh0rizons • 1y ago
Any tips and guidance for awkward couples who don't want posed looks but have no spatial body awareness? Is your approach to intimate weddings different from weddings with bigger
guest lists? How do you deal with pasaway guests sa shoot, e.g., those who don't follow the dress code like in the case of https://www.reddit.com/r/ChikaPH/s/A7K8SngJcJ or
https://www.facebook.com/share/r/12LQntFJWJw/, noncompliant sa unplugged ceremony request, etc.) tapos may request ang couple not to include or to "hide them" sa pics?
u/nonfilmer_filmfan avatar nonfilmer_filmfan OP • 1y ago 1.) Always look at your partner, eventually you’ll find something to talk about, and then you’ll laugh. A good photographer
will guide you all through out especially with body language where you’re comfortable, so always find that sweet spot where you feel comfortable that it’s almost a natural body
movement for you. 2.) Not all that different really. We always make sure we stick to our flow. Usually ramdam lang namin yung number of pax sa reception. Ang totoog ramdam namin is
ang #of entourage. ;) 3.) As much as gusto namin sila i-correct, we always respect the guests unless there’s an altercation with us, we just report it to you. Sasabihan naman namin
sila when they really block our frame, may mga nag sosorry, may mga nagagalit din. Nakita ko yan ;) Usually not our problem. Editing them out of everything will take time and at a
price. You have the choice not to post them. 3 more replies ahjumma009 • 1y ago Hello. Thanks for doing this! I am a fan of one specific wedding photographer team, sabi ko sa
sarili ko sila talaga yung kukunin ko kase ang ganda ng mga shots nila, now i inquire about their rates and i am willing to extend our budget for them. Pero di ko na alam mga
itatanong ko sa kanila, kase as a fan tiwala naman ako na magiging maganda yung kalalabasan. Maybe you can help list down questions we need to ask padin with this photo team. 🥹
Thank you in advance! 🥰 u/nonfilmer_filmfan avatar nonfilmer_filmfan OP • 1y ago Here are some possible questions you can ask your photographer: How would you describe your
photography style? What are your priorities when taking photos? Can you share with us your workflow on the day? I specifically want _________, do you think this is something you’re
open to doing? Ask to see some galleries (in your wedding venue if possible) Here’s a great thread to help you further: https://www.reddit.com/r/weddingplanning/s/lKuLGahDhE 1 more
reply PersimmonEmmon • 1y ago Umattend ako ng wedding ng pinsan ko, guest lang ako, pero nagulay pinsan ko ako pinaka maraming stolen shots. What’s your take regarding this?
Feeling ko photogenic tuloy ako kasi ang dami kong pictures. Lol. u/nonfilmer_filmfan avatar nonfilmer_filmfan OP • 1y ago ibig sabihin maganda ka at single ung photographer New to
Reddit? Create your account and connect with a world of communities. Continue With Phone Number By continuing, you agree to our User Agreement and acknowledge that you understand
the Privacy Policy. Related Answers Section Related Answers Best spots to get married in the Philippines Budget wedding ideas in the Philippines Unique wedding themes for Filipino
couples Top wedding photographers in the Philippines Creative ways to personalize wedding vows More posts you may like Entitled wedding photo/video supplier? r/WeddingsPhilippines
• 3mo ago Entitled wedding photo/video supplier? r/WeddingsPhilippines - Entitled wedding photo/video supplier? 2 471 upvotes · 258 comments u/shopify avatar shopify • Promoted
Build your site. Launch your business. Sell everywhere people shop in 2026. Thumbnail image: Build your site. Launch your business. Sell everywhere people shop in 2026. shopify.com
Sign Up I’m a Wedding Photographer that only uses ANALOG FILM – Ask me anything! r/WeddingsPhilippines • 1y ago I’m a Wedding Photographer that only uses ANALOG FILM – Ask me
anything! 24 upvotes · 41 comments Affordable Wedding Photographers r/WeddingsPhilippines • 4mo ago Affordable Wedding Photographers 15 upvotes · 32 comments 30M If you’re looking
to chat with a man who has all the markings of Asperger’s, then I’m your man. r/MakeNewFriendsHere • 1y ago 30M If you’re looking to chat with a man who has all the markings of
Asperger’s, then I’m your man. 1 upvote · 1 comment Videographer Suggestions r/WeddingsPhilippines • 3mo ago Videographer Suggestions 8 upvotes · 22 comments Will I regret not
having a videographer? r/WeddingsPhilippines • 6mo ago Will I regret not having a videographer? 10 upvotes · 22 comments Wedding Photographer/Videographer (unscripted, candid,
documentary style) r/WeddingsPhilippines • 3mo ago Wedding Photographer/Videographer (unscripted, candid, documentary style) 9 upvotes · 19 comments Wedding Content Creator?
r/WeddingsPhilippines • 4mo ago Wedding Content Creator? 9 upvotes · 25 comments Wedding Photographers r/WeddingsPhilippines • 1y ago Wedding Photographers r/WeddingsPhilippines -
Wedding Photographers 4 285 upvotes · 44 comments I’m a female wedding photographer in the Philippines with 9 years of experience! Happy to answer your wedding questions (no
promos, just sharing experience!) r/WeddingsPhilippines • 8mo ago I’m a female wedding photographer in the Philippines with 9 years of experience! Happy to answer your wedding
questions (no promos, just sharing experience!) 26 upvotes · 30 comments I’m a Roofer, ask me a question! r/DIYUK • 1y ago I’m a Roofer, ask me a question! r/DIYUK - I’m a Roofer,
ask me a question! 459 upvotes · 720 comments Any underrated wedding suppliers you’ve worked with? r/WeddingsPhilippines • 25d ago Any underrated wedding suppliers you’ve worked
with? 29 upvotes · 72 comments Im inlove with this wedding r/WeddingsPhilippines • 6mo ago Im inlove with this wedding r/WeddingsPhilippines - Im inlove with this wedding 999
upvotes · 79 comments I’m an 8-figure private label seller. Ask me anything. r/AmazonFBA • 1y ago I’m an 8-figure private label seller. Ask me anything. r/AmazonFBA - I’m an
8-figure private label seller. Ask me anything. 100 upvotes · 149 comments Realistically - how much would I spend for this kind of wedding? r/WeddingsPhilippines • 5mo ago
Realistically - how much would I spend for this kind of wedding? r/WeddingsPhilippines - Realistically - how much would I spend for this kind of wedding? 72 upvotes · 61 comments
I’m a horse girl, here to answer your questions r/PaymoneyWubby • 1y ago I’m a horse girl, here to answer your questions r/PaymoneyWubby - I’m a horse girl, here to answer your
questions 3 487 upvotes · 212 comments I’m a vet, ask me anything about your dog r/DogAdvice • 1y ago I’m a vet, ask me anything about your dog 5 upvotes · 45 comments Sharing our
experience with an all in-wedding package (for awareness only) r/WeddingsPhilippines • 20d ago Sharing our experience with an all in-wedding package (for awareness only) 32 upvotes
· 23 comments I’m a Hiring Manager - Ask Me Anything! r/interviews • 1y ago I’m a Hiring Manager - Ask Me Anything! 399 upvotes · 416 comments wag sana mangyari sa wedding natin
mga sis r/WeddingsPhilippines • 7d ago wag sana mangyari sa wedding natin mga sis r/WeddingsPhilippines - wag sana mangyari sa wedding natin mga sis 2 694 upvotes · 83 comments
Thoughts about wedding without any theme and color restrictions to guests r/WeddingsPhilippines • 3mo ago Thoughts about wedding without any theme and color restrictions to guests
10 upvotes · 14 comments Engagement photographers in the PH? r/WeddingsPhilippines • 7mo ago Engagement photographers in the PH? r/WeddingsPhilippines - Engagement photographers in
the PH? 0:21 74 upvotes · 15 comments I’m a vet, ask me anything about your dog! r/DogAdvice • 1y ago I’m a vet, ask me anything about your dog! 3 upvotes · 57 comments [ON] Ask me
your bookkeeping related questions and I’ll answer them. r/SmallBusinessCanada • 1y ago [ON] Ask me your bookkeeping related questions and I’ll answer them. 3 upvotes · 10 comments
I’m a Full-Time Life Coach - Ask Me Anything r/lifecoaching • 1y ago I’m a Full-Time Life Coach - Ask Me Anything 80 upvotes · 177 comments View Post in 简体中文 日本語 See more Community
Info Section r/WeddingsPhilippines snoo_biblethump Join WeddingsPhilippines To help future brides choose their suppliers. Feel free to also leave your reviews, questions and
suggestions. Not wedding related posts will be deleted. Show more Public Top Posts Reddit reReddit: Top posts of March 23, 2025 Reddit reReddit: Top posts of March 2025 Reddit
reReddit: Top posts of 2025 Reddit Rules Privacy Policy User Agreement Your Privacy Choices Accessibility Reddit, Inc. © 2026. All rights reserved. Collapse Navigation Skip to main
content Pursuing modelling / portrait photography as a hobbyist : r/photography r/photography Search in r/photography Get App Log In Expand user menu Skip to NavigationSkip to
Right Sidebar Back Go to photography r/photography • 4y ago [deleted] Pursuing modelling / portrait photography as a hobbyist Discussion I've always done street / landscape
Photography to a degree but have recently got into photography as a whole and have started investing a lot of time and money into it. Really loving it. One avenue I'd like to go
down is portraits and model photography -using lights, studio space and models for my photos. Would this be seen as weird as someone who is not getting paid? Purely a (new)
hobbyist and doing photography as a creative outlet and social thing - I've never earnt a dime from photography and probably never will but I'd like to venture into this. Archived
post. New comments cannot be posted and votes cannot be cast. Upvote 249 Downvote 64 Go to comments Share u/OpenAI avatar OpenAI • Promoted Ready to move from mockup to code? Start
now with Codex, available with ChatGPT. Sign Up chatgpt.com Thumbnail image: Ready to move from mockup to code? Start now with Codex, available with ChatGPT. Sort by: Best Search
Comments Expand comment search Comments Section BokehMonkeh • 4y ago It's only weird if you make it weird. When you're new, I'd probably try to avoid models who are also new - and
feel free to be upfront about the fact that this is new territory for you. An experienced model can be super helpful in getting great photos, but they're generally not going to
"offer advice" unless they have reason to think you want it. Upvote 17 Downvote Award Share rideThe • 4y ago Why would it be weird? It's a hobby, explore away! u/whatstefansees
avatar whatstefansees • 4y ago • Edited 4y ago Portrait and - even more so - sensual portrait photography is a VERY challenging but also very satisfactory discipline. Gear doesn't
matter, communication does more than anywhere else. You could start TfP, but I highly recommend to start with a workshop or an experienced model and that means to spend some cash.
I know that you have already taken shots of your partner and maybe five friends, but if you want to get better, learn how to communicate ideas and direct a set on location. A
typical beginner's fault is to be great with camera and lens and light and whatnot but ... uncomfortable (or unable) communicating corrections. Don't say "I want to shoot you at
that window looking lovingly at me". You need to say "OK, a bit loser to the frame, yes, the left shoulder a tad higher - OK - now lower your chin a bit, look straight ahead - good
- now turn your eyes towards me without turning your head". You can learn that. Splash out the cash. The model isn't there for you. The model is there for the camera. Good
photography happens when BOTH - model and photographer - are at their peak for a moment or an hour. The model and you are a team and you need to be able to communicate in order to
achieve your goal. When this happens, when you both communicate at the same level, you make great portraits happen and the model also communicates with the beholder. Keep your gear
in great order and learn how to use it BEFORE going into a shooting. Camera, standard or (very) light tele lens indoors, mid tele lens outdoors and a cheap 90 cm reflector (10
bucks from Amazon or wherever) will be sufficient for 90% of all photos. For a home-studio I recommend a system-flash, radio-controller, 60 cm softbox and a tripod. This (plus your
reflector) opens nearly unlimited options. Really. Learn how to use it, learn what it does and what more it can do and if your partner gets tired from the tenth "can we just do
another practice session" shoot your teddy-bear or a watermelon or a cabbage. Just learn how to handle your gear before the show hits the road. Now - only now - look for TfP
models. There is no money involved and you both want to get the most out of it, so make sure that it's a great experience for both parties. Nothing is more frustrating than two
beginners who end up with mediocre photos after having given their best. This won't happen with you. You have an idea of what you want to shoot, you have an idea of what sets are
possible on location and you can get that out of you and your gear. Now it's just establishing a comfortable athmosphere and working together with the model. You got that. Yes, I
know quite well what I am talking about: https://whatstefansees.com my page (some NSFW) and https://pixls.us/articles/nsfw-what-stefan-sees/ an interview I gave to Pixls.us four or
five years ago (pretty much all NSFW) [deleted] OP • 4y ago Thank you, some good tips here. saved u/gotthelowdown avatar gotthelowdown • 4y ago • Edited 4y ago Great tips and
advice. Your photos are great and your interview was loaded with information. Cool that you use open-source software like Darktable and Gimp. Thanks for sharing. av4rice • 4y ago
Profile Badge for the Achievement Top 1% Commenter Top 1% Commenter One avenue I'd like to go down is portraits and model photography -using lights, studio space and models for my
photos. Would this be seen as weird as someone who is not getting paid? No. I do it all the time. [deleted] OP • 4y ago how did you get started? Jump in feet first using a friend
as a model in a studio or something, or lots of research beforehand before doing it av4rice • 4y ago Profile Badge for the Achievement Top 1% Commenter Top 1% Commenter I started
by joining sessions that a photographer friend set up, or that other photographers were hosting as a group thing. Meetup.com can have stuff like that, or in big cities some
organizers promote on Instagram. 1 more reply Neda07 • 4y ago I'll give you perspective from someone that does portrait photography as a hobby, but also someone who models. From a
hobby point, it's not weird, unless you make it weird somehow. Work with experienced models at first, and communicate. Explain that you are new and want to learn. You can also
shadow other portrait photographers. From a model point, we understand if you're new. We can also help you out, especially if we already have experience. Ask, try, and learn. It
won't be linear, but be open. As long as you are willing to put in the work and learn, it will be fine. Most models will be understanding and work with you. It builds you a
portfolio, and it gives us some pictures too. Also, be mindful when working with people. Don't force your models, and adapt if need be. ageowns • 4y ago If it helps, like if people
are questioning your motives or just think its weird, just say that no one is going to pay you until you get better. That takes patience, time, experience, and sometimes you have
to pay the model. Yes I’ve been able to meet models that need photos and so I’ve been able to get a lot of experience without having to pay. Your mileage may vary, but I have not
had great experience with studios. Its a pain booking a time that you and the model and the studio are free, the strict time frames impact the creativity and it was often the most
expensive part of the equation. I got a pair of battery powered studio strobes with umbrellas on Amazon Prime Day for a killer deal and honestly I wish I had done it sooner than
fussing with a studio. It helps to have a story or a look or a theme for each shoot. Even if its a simple as pretty fall leaves, something spooky for Halloween, or just high
fashion. I’m typically a solo shooter, but having an assistant is a life saver. And if you’re nervous about one on one time with a stranger, having an assistant helps. Good luck.
Check me out on instagram @ageowns Id be happy to answer more questions. u/josephallenkeys avatar josephallenkeys • 4y ago The weirdness basically hinges on whether by "I want to
shoot models" you mean "I want to see people nude" or whether you actually have a creative vision that needs actors in the scene. Are you a Instagram pervert or Gregory Crewdon?
whoops_not_a_mistake • 4y ago If you think you'll enjoy it, go for it! Some people might scoff at an "amateur" but there are plenty of people who will work with you for no pay.
d3adbor3d2 • 4y ago Weird? Not at all! Even if it’s fire eating, hula dancing or making sweaters out of rat hair You found something you want to do, that’s wonderful! some people
talk themselves out of taking that leap for whatever reason. Even better if it’s purely for your enjoyment and not to chase a paycheck (no offense to those who do it for a living,
but it does become more work than a passion imo) Best of luck to you. Bxrocks06 • 4y ago Absolutely not it would be a enter to doing stuff but I’m sure you could get loads of
people to help you out with it [deleted] • 4y ago A new hobbyist photographer wanting to work with models is not weird at all! I’m a professional freelance model and 95% of the
photographers who hire me are hobbyists have other jobs or are retired and just enjoy photography but don’t make money from it. If you don’t want to hire models right away (I’ll
admit, it’s expensive), you can go the TFP route. The top commenter posted lots of great info about that, although you definitely don’t have to do everything they mentioned. The
most important things are to be respectful of the model, and do what you say you’re going to do in terms of the image turnaround time. Good luck and happy shooting! 😊
caseyjosephine • 4y ago A friend of mine does this, it’s not weird. It does become weird when the photographer is trying to get laid. Especially in a dude photographer/lady model
dynamic. From a woman’s perspective, safety is the biggest concern. Going to a studio is scarier than being in a public place, especially if the studio belongs to a stranger. I’d
want to know the address in advance, so I could text my friends to let them know my location Make it clear that the model can bring a friend/partner If you have a partner/roommate
at the home, introduce them to the model The reality is that one in five women has experienced attempted or completed rape, and 80% of women have experienced sexual harassment or
assault. So do what you can to make it clear that you’re only interested in photography, because women do worry about being sexually assaulted in these situations. u/AJ_Smoothie
avatar AJ_Smoothie • 4y ago Hello! So I was right were you were a few years ago. I kept asking friends to be my models but that list was quickly exhausted. I was left with how to
find models? Instagram. I follow lots of my local hastags (i.e. #chattanooga, #chattanoogamodel etc.). Also find other photographers and businesses in your area. In Chatt we have
the Chattanooga Fashion Expo, and they are constantly posting photos of new models in the area all the time. I just follow models accounts, maybe interact with their stories, and
then I very simply ask them if they'd like to model for a photoshoot. They get the photos for free, and I get the photos for my portfolio. Here's how my last message went: Hey
/name/ how are you? I'm a photographer here in Chattanooga that's always looking for new people to photograph. I was wondering you might be interested in recreating a shot like
this? and I simply followed that up with sending a photo that I was interested in doing. Here is another one I sent to a model I just shot with: Hi /name/, I'm AJ, a Chattanooga
resident and photographer. I'm reaching out because I'm always eager to find new folks to model for a photoshoot! I'm usually searching for a new challenge or idea to put my skills
to the test. Would you be interested in modeling for a photoshoot in the near future? Don't be afraid to ask models that you found on other local photographer's pages. The
photographer doesn't "own" that model. Unless the models are with an agency, they generally don't have exclusivity with any particular photographer. Out of 20 people I asked this
year, I got about 15 yesses! Most of the time people are totally willing and interested in working with new photographers. Think about it from their perspective, they are getting
experience working with new photographers, they can practice new poses, practice with expressing a photographer's creativity, and they're getting portfolio photos. It's just not
all for your benefit. If the shoot goes well or after you've sent the photos and they really like them, ask them for a follow up shoot or ask if they know any friends that would
like to do a photoshoot. Start expanding your network in your area. Continue to do excellent work and you begin to get noticed. Good luck! u/gotthelowdown avatar gotthelowdown • 4y
ago Thanks for sharing your experiences. This was inspiring. [deleted] • 4y ago I don't know where I'd be without a space to build sets in. Out in the woods with all the moms and
their 24mm-70mm f2.8s, at sunset taking photos of families standing next to trees, I guess u/stockadobe avatar u/stockadobe • Promoted Edit faster than ever with a new collection
of powerful AI tools. Learn More stock.adobe.com Thumbnail image: Edit faster than ever with a new collection of powerful AI tools. u/Grzesiek_Brz avatar Grzesiek_Brz • 4y ago I do
it. Haven't gotten a dime but lots of fun for sure. Mostly with friends so I guess that takes the weird out. To me it's all about how you set boundaries and expectations before and
during the session to make it not weird. Elmore420 • 4y ago Well, you don’t get paid to learn the craft unless you’re working as someone’s assistant, so it’s not particularly
weird, no. You want a minimum of 2 lights and a couple of reflectors, and you want a good hand held strobe meter so you can measure the light ratios while adjusting the distance.
hungryelbow • 4y ago This is perfectly fine, I’m in the same boat. I posted a Craigslist ad looking for models and got lucky from there. kickstand • 4y ago You may have a local
photography club or meetup group with does portraits. You can also take a class or workshop on portraiture. Do you have a local art school that has adult / continuing ed classes?
New to Reddit? Create your account and connect with a world of communities. Continue With Phone Number By continuing, you agree to our User Agreement and acknowledge that you
understand the Privacy Policy. Related Answers Section Related Answers Best tips for portrait modeling photography Understanding TFP in photography How to become a photo model
Commercial photography explained Best lenses for portrait photography More posts you may like Finding models & how does a photo-shoot work? r/photography • 2y ago Finding models &
how does a photo-shoot work? 37 upvotes · 37 comments u/bookcameo avatar bookcameo • Promoted Cameo is the only gift that makes grown adults lose composure on camera. Please gift
wisely. Thumbnail image: Cameo is the only gift that makes grown adults lose composure on camera. Please gift wisely. cameo.com Book Now Best way to get models for a beginner
portrait photographer? r/photography • 8mo ago Best way to get models for a beginner portrait photographer? 16 comments A few natural portraits r/MODELING • 8mo ago A few natural
portraits r/MODELING - A few natural portraits 3 143 upvotes · 45 comments Does anyone else find that the more you learn about photography, the harder it is to just enjoy taking
pictures? r/photography • 2mo ago Does anyone else find that the more you learn about photography, the harder it is to just enjoy taking pictures? 209 upvotes · 63 comments Curious
as to how others define a "portrait" in photography r/photography • 6y ago Curious as to how others define a "portrait" in photography 6 comments Sur staff modelling pictures
r/vanderpumprules • 10mo ago Sur staff modelling pictures r/vanderpumprules - Sur staff modelling pictures bravotv 59 upvotes · 33 comments what do yall think is the most
repetitive/boring style of photography r/photography • 3mo ago what do yall think is the most repetitive/boring style of photography 175 upvotes · 395 comments Portrait subjects
not wanting me to post what I think is my best work r/photography • 8mo ago Portrait subjects not wanting me to post what I think is my best work 40 upvotes · 56 comments What
parts of being a professional photographer isn’t talked about enough? r/photography • 1mo ago What parts of being a professional photographer isn’t talked about enough? 82 upvotes
· 145 comments Want to start a photography business, I might need your help r/AskPhotography • 4y ago Want to start a photography business, I might need your help 10 upvotes · 34
comments Tips for directing models/friends when doing portrait photography? r/photography • 9y ago Tips for directing models/friends when doing portrait photography? 15 upvotes · 7
comments Describing to non-photographers the difference between “taking a picture” and “making a portrait”? r/photography • 6y ago Describing to non-photographers the difference
between “taking a picture” and “making a portrait”? 57 upvotes · 50 comments Learn Portrait photography? r/photography • 2y ago Learn Portrait photography? 5 comments Looking for
advice on a lightweight mirrorless / full-frame camera for street + portrait photography r/Cameras • 7mo ago Looking for advice on a lightweight mirrorless / full-frame camera for
street + portrait photography 1 upvote · 6 comments Thinking of quitting my job to pursue photography full time. Would love to hear from anyone who's taken the leap. r/photography
• 7mo ago Thinking of quitting my job to pursue photography full time. Would love to hear from anyone who's taken the leap. 83 upvotes · 111 comments Wondering how to make Money as
an independent photographer r/photography • 4y ago Wondering how to make Money as an independent photographer 315 upvotes · 171 comments Beginner photographer wanting to get into
street photography r/AskPhotography • 4y ago Beginner photographer wanting to get into street photography 3 upvotes · 13 comments Family Photographer looking to get into second
shooting and looking for advice. r/WeddingPhotography • 4y ago Family Photographer looking to get into second shooting and looking for advice. 3 upvotes · 5 comments Asking people
for their portrait r/photography • 4mo ago Asking people for their portrait 41 upvotes · 15 comments I need some advice to look good in photos r/photography • 2mo ago I need some
advice to look good in photos 11 upvotes · 19 comments I'm a new photographer and need advice on marketing r/photography • 7mo ago I'm a new photographer and need advice on
