frequently a less expensive photographer may miss the good moments because they aren’t as experienced. When we were comparing the galleries between the person we chose and someone
less expensive, the less expensive person’s candid shots just never had a subject. It was never little Susie trying to get little Billy to dance. Just a bunch of random shots. I
hope your photographer gets all those shots for you OkProfession5679 • 2y ago • Edited 2y ago I agree with this. We hired a relatively inexpensive photographer - about 2500-3k?
Don’t remember - and the candids were not really that great. But that’s ok, there were enough photos for us to get the shots we loved. u/EmeraldLovergreen avatar EmeraldLovergreen
• 2y ago We paid $3,000 which is experienced in our area, but not top of the line. We did some posed shots as well but I really wanted to see interactions with our guests. Both
with us and also just throughout our reception. And she did an excellent job. Additionally she helped us plan out our day. We had done a mock up with the restaurant and then she
helped us narrow things down further. u/Sutaru avatar Sutaru • 2y ago That’s inexpensive? That’s pretty high end in my area, LOL. We paid $3k and our photographer was amazing. When
I got pregnant, we hired her again for maternity/newborn photos, and she takes pictures of us every year. We love her. 1 more reply 1 more reply u/edessa_rufomarginata avatar
edessa_rufomarginata • 2y ago Profile Badge for the Achievement Top 1% Commenter Top 1% Commenter We are also focusing almost exclusively on candid style photos, and there's a
pretty clear difference in the quality of the candid photos by the more expensive photog vs the cheaper one. I recently had a friend get some pretty bad wedding photos done and I
didn't realize how I was going to care so much how they turned out until I saw how badly they can go. [deleted] • 2y ago We wanted mostly candidate and love our wedding album. I
will say my one regret about that is we have very few photos of the two of us both starting at the camera. I get that wasn’t the style we wanted but I don’t think my grandma wants
our candid photo hung on her wall 2 more replies mislysbb • 2y ago I think in some aspects you get what you pay for, but if quality isn’t high up on the list of priorities then to
each their own! 2 more replies u/ClancyCandy avatar ClancyCandy • 2y ago We hired a relatively expensive photographer; we have one photo on our wall and one on the mantle. We never
even bothered getting an album made 😂 Honestly so long as you have a handful of decent photos that’s really all you need- I think I’ve looked at my parents album two or three times
in my life, it’s definitely not the be all and end all! Our graduation photos, travel photos, and photos with our children mean an awful lot more to us than our wedding photos, and
none of them came close to the same price! u/Throwawayycpa avatar Throwawayycpa • 2y ago Honestly I’ve only seen my parents album once and I have watched their video more … that’s
why we absolutely opted for video. I know some people are in favor of more expensive photos and no video but we’re not doing that. u/ClancyCandy avatar ClancyCandy • 2y ago We
watched our video twice all the way through and have watched different clips at various times. I think long term we will appreciate the video more; especially the speeches/toasts!
2 more replies Specialist-Brain-919 OP • 2y ago I absolutely think this will happen to us! We'll post some pictures of social media, share all the pictures with our friends, but
after a few weeks except the few we'll print and hang in our house we'll probably never look at them ahah u/ClancyCandy avatar ClancyCandy • 2y ago • Edited 2y ago I’ve been in
weddings where I haven’t even seen a whole lot of photos, only the ones the couple put on social media- Except for very close family I don’t think many people want to see more than
the top 10 photos really! I’ve also ask a dozen people for recommendations on getting an album made (so few photographers do them in-house nowadays) and only one couple in my
circle has had a full album made! Most just get a photo book made online, and we haven’t sat down to do that in the last two years! 1 more reply u/Zola avatar u/Zola • Promoted
Fast to build, easy to curate, and filled with what you actually want. Fast to build, easy to curate, and filled with what you actually want. Fast to build, easy to curate, and
filled with what you actually want. Fast to build, easy to curate, and filled with what you actually want. Fast to build, easy to curate, and filled with what you actually want.
welcome.zola.com Sign Up nicole_1 • 2y ago I very much disagree but the nice thing about weddings is you get to decide what’s important to YOU and not anyone else ❤️
Specialist-Brain-919 OP • 2y ago Absolutely! That's a very nice comment :) inkmetalandlace • 2y ago You gotta prioritize where you spend your budget. If photography isn't worth it
to you then don't spend the money there. A little easier said than done because of Unsolicited Opinions but you just have to learn to tune out the noise. SitaBird • 2y ago I
totally get it. We paid one of our art school friends to shoot ours for under $1000. That said; you sometimes get what you pay for! There are many horror stories of unvetted
beginner photographers never sending the photos, or making the clients wait months or a year or more for their photos. Or, they do a horrible job editing. So, choose wisely.
“Budget” photographers can sometimes cost more in the long run. 2 more replies newyorkgirl914 • 2y ago What I did was hired a friend that was starting off her Photography business
(she's successful now) I was her first wedding she ever did, the photos came out great and she charged me very little as she needed the experience and I was on a tight budget at
that time. I also had friends taking additional photos . 4 more replies sthetic • 2y ago It's totally fine for you to hire a less expensive photographer. But some of the benefits
you may miss out on (which, again, is fine): They don't just give you hundreds or thousands of photos; they spend time after the wedding to sort through them and only send you an
assortment of the best; They provide you with a less stressful experience on the wedding day, by scoping out good photo locations, having a plan and schedule that matches your
expectations discussed ahead of time, being able to adapt to changes, being great at directing poses in a friendly and efficient manner, giving you their full attention, etc. Your
wedding day is SHORT. There is a benefit to having experienced professionals who reduce your stress rather than add to it. And one more time: it's totally fine for you to choose a
less expensive photographer who may not have those benefits, and still be happy with the results. silverrowena • 2y ago 'Very' expensive, maybe not - I see people hiring
photographers at upwards of $10k on reddit - but it was a priority item for us, yes. Our photographer is about average for our location but she is someone whose style we really
love. I'm an amateur photographer (was pro for a while) so it's really important to me that we're hiring an artist and we want to pay a good rate for good artistry.
u/Official_ATTFiber avatar u/Official_ATTFiber • Promoted Home internet from AT&T that works the moment you plug in at a simple, straightforward price. Learn More att.com Thumbnail
image: Home internet from AT&T that works the moment you plug in at a simple, straightforward price. thescaryitalian • 2y ago This is such a good example of how different
everyone’s priorities can be. The photographer we picked is our most expensive line item after venue/catering (we’ll pay probably $7k all in) but her photos are truly art. She has
a fine art photography background and it shows in the way she plays with angles, heights, and exposures. I won’t be going back to look at the group family portrait, but I will be
going back to look at the more experimental shots and simple candid moments that she’s made beautiful. If you can’t tell, I’m so insanely excited about our photographer!
GirlieGirl81 • 2y ago I got married in 2022. I reached out to my dream photographer and her packages outrageously expensive! Although her photography was insanely gorgeous, the
price point made hiring her a complete non-starter. I was beyond bummed. So, I did a ton of research and eventually selected a photographer who was much more affordable. Several
weeks after our wedding we received our photos back, and the pictures were absolutely stunning. You don’t necessarily have to break the bank to get beautiful wedding pictures. My
advice would be to do some research and select someone who does quality work within your set budget. 1 more reply [deleted] • 2y ago • Edited 2y ago To give another perspective,
when my parents got married they hired an inexpensive wedding photographer and the photos came out terrible. My mom was so sad and disappointed and in all the years my parents were
married they never displayed the photos. My parents are divorced now (unrelated to the photography 🤣) but now that I’m getting married I convinced her to show me some for the first
time ever and yep - they’re bad. The lighting is dark, people are caught off guard and not smiling, he missed a lot of key moments. Many of the family members in the photos have
passed and I would’ve loved to see some clear shots of them during happier times, particularly both of my grandmothers who both passed 3 years before I met my now fiancé. It kinda
broke my heart sorting through all these awful photos and not a single one of either of them smiling next to my parents. I agree with you that not everything has to be instagram
perfect but quality does matter. 2 more replies [deleted] • 2y ago • Edited 2y ago Totally agree with you OP! The wedding industry is massive and just keeps growing. It just makes
us feel like we NEED to splurge. and it’s socially acceptable to bite the bullet and just spend because “you only get married once” and otherwise “you’ll regret it forever” and
miss out of a “once in a lifetime opportunity” etc etc etc That social pressure can also come through sentiments like “you get what you pay for” because it can create fear /
anxiety about decisions. It assumes you’re going to have regrets or have terrible service or something. But with anything else, risks can be mitigated by looking at third party
reviews, interviewing the vendor, etc. but of course, there are no guarantees (for anything!) but I think fear is generally a great motivator to get people to spend more For those
who splurge on photos / vids, all the power to you! But there are a lot of us who don’t feel like the wedding day is the end and be all (especially those of us who are financial
conscious). There are lots of special days and moments and celebrations in a lifetime, each memorable and priceless in their own way. We also booked a budget photographer. My
parents didn’t have a photographer for their wedding - friends took candid shots on disposable cameras in the 80s and they’re great. The whole wedding was a budget wedding. Sure
the decor was bad, the seating was bad, the photos were amateur / people looking every which way, lighting was terrible, etc (very much like what you described in your experience).
but everyone’s smiling and happy and I absolutely loved looking at the pics over the years. 1 more reply DemCheex • 2y ago • Edited 2y ago Eh… I wouldn’t trade our photographer or
our engagement photos for anything and I’m looking forward to more great photos from them on our wedding day. I think hiring an experienced photographer, who is excellent at their
craft, to capture the memories of a lifetime is so important. And sometimes, that means $$$ - you get what you pay for. It’s the only way the visuals of those memories live on.
Arguably, photography is the second most important thing for us after food. We have both a digital photographer and a film photographer for this reason. Wannabe_Journalist27 • 2y
ago I totally agree! I feel like I’ve seen instagram reels that are like well if you spend a ton of money on wedding photos but you look at them/appreciate them every day for the
rest of your life, then really they’re free. Idk I just can’t imagine I’m looking at my wedding photos that much. I really like our engagement photos, but I don’t look at them
everyday ?? Our photographer is really talented + was a little under budget and we’re so excited to work with her! New to Reddit? Create your account and connect with a world of
communities. Continue With Phone Number By continuing, you agree to our User Agreement and acknowledge that you understand the Privacy Policy. Related Answers Section Related
Answers Best tips for choosing a wedding photographer When choosing a wedding photographer, focus on style, personality, and transparency. Prioritize seeing full galleries over
curated portfolios, as consistency across an entire event is crucial. Ensure a good personal connection, as the photographer will be with you throughout your special day. Finding
the Right Style and Quality Review full wedding galleries, not just highlights: Don't rely solely on social media or website portfolios, as these are often curated to show only the
best shots. "Do not pick a photographer based on their website portfolio - ask each photographer to send you a few full galleries from weddings." Match their style to your vision:
Understand different photography and editing styles (e.g., documentary, editorial, light and airy, dark and moody, true-to-color) and choose one that aligns with your preferences.
"I would begin by having a clear idea of the types of photos you want for your wedding, do you lean more documentary (candid) or editorial (posed) or somewhere inbetween?" Assess
their skill in diverse conditions: Look for photographers who can deliver excellent results in various lighting situations and environments, as your wedding day may have
unpredictable elements. "Photographer here- I always tell people when looking at a photographers portfolio to look for photos from a variety of lighting situations." Prioritizing
Personality and Professionalism Choose someone you genuinely connect with: You'll be spending a significant amount of time with your photographer on your wedding day, so a good
rapport is essential for natural and comfortable photos. "Ultimately I felt like our connection over our video call wasnt really there and once I saw a full album I wasnt that
impressed (when you are interviewing request to view a full album to see more than just their best shots)." Look for clear communication and transparency: A professional
photographer should be upfront about pricing, contracts, and their process, and be responsive to your inquiries. "I only looked at photographers who had their pricing available on
their website because I just believe in price transparency and I didn’t want that part of wedding planning to feel like a second job." Inquire about their backup plans and
experience: Ask about their contingency plans for unforeseen circumstances, such as illness or equipment failure, and ensure they have adequate experience and insurance. "The
question I always ask is what happens if the photographer wakes up on wedding day with Covid or similar - what their backup plan is." Practical Search Strategies Utilize venue
recommendations: Check if your venue has a list of preferred vendors, as these photographers will already be familiar with the location and its unique aspects. "You could start
with the preferred vendor list at your venue." Leverage social media and personal referrals: Explore Instagram tags for photographers in your area and ask recently married
acquaintances for their experiences and recommendations. "I stalked reputable venues (Including the one I chose) that I liked in my area and looked at all the photographers that
had worked there a few times on social." Be specific in your inquiries: When reaching out, clearly state your desired style, budget, and any specific requirements to help narrow
down potential candidates and avoid sifting through irrelevant responses. "Get specific!!! Ie., 'I am looking for an experienced photographer with a full website (not just social
media) so I can view full galleries of your work.'" Would you like to explore specific wedding photography styles in more detail? See Answer Average wedding photography costs in
the US Unique wedding themes to consider Best ways to personalize wedding vows Creative ideas for wedding favors More posts you may like Do you regret paying to have a photographer
capture your wedding? Not because they were problematic or did a bad job - but because you didn’t feel it was actually worth it after all? r/wedding • 3y ago Do you regret paying
to have a photographer capture your wedding? Not because they were problematic or did a bad job - but because you didn’t feel it was actually worth it after all? 9 upvotes · 55
comments Wedding photographer for small registry office ceremony r/bristol • 2y ago Wedding photographer for small registry office ceremony 3 upvotes · 4 comments Photographer
recommendations? r/savannah • 2y ago Photographer recommendations? 4 upvotes · 9 comments Promoted sidebar promoted post thumbnail Does a second photographer make that much of a
difference? r/weddingplanning • 7mo ago Does a second photographer make that much of a difference? 6 upvotes · 13 comments My photographers rates doubled r/weddingplanning • 16d
ago My photographers rates doubled 19 comments Any regrets for spending $10k+ on photography and/or videography? r/weddingplanning • 4mo ago Any regrets for spending $10k+ on
photography and/or videography? 4 upvotes · 20 comments Should I just start an youtube ch, since my job isn't paying so well and I don't think it'll be feasible for long-term?
r/kolkata • 2y ago Should I just start an youtube ch, since my job isn't paying so well and I don't think it'll be feasible for long-term? 10 comments Looking for a Wedding
Photographer for Massachusetts 2022 under $2,500 r/WeddingPhotography • 5y ago Looking for a Wedding Photographer for Massachusetts 2022 under $2,500 15 upvotes · 39 comments
Promoted sidebar promoted post thumbnail Wedding photographer recommendations? r/bristol • 5y ago Wedding photographer recommendations? 11 upvotes · 69 comments Engagement
Photographer Recommendation? r/bristol • 10mo ago Engagement Photographer Recommendation? 1 upvote · 11 comments Am I right to feel disappointed with my photographer
r/weddingplanning • 9mo ago Am I right to feel disappointed with my photographer 25 upvotes · 22 comments Calgary Wedding Photographer Rates r/Calgary • 1y ago Calgary Wedding
Photographer Rates 38 comments Unpopular opinion: A lot of “luxury wedding photography” is just average photography wrapped in expensive styling. r/photography • 10mo ago Unpopular
opinion: A lot of “luxury wedding photography” is just average photography wrapped in expensive styling. 593 upvotes · 156 comments Wedding photographer recs (near Bristol)
r/bristol • 10mo ago Wedding photographer recs (near Bristol) 14 comments Do we need a professional photographer? r/weddingplanning • 6mo ago Do we need a professional
photographer? 7 upvotes · 49 comments Wedding photographer cost has me nervous r/weddingplanning • 2y ago Wedding photographer cost has me nervous 5 upvotes · 34 comments What’s a
reasonable price to pay for a wedding photographer? r/weddingplanning • 3y ago What’s a reasonable price to pay for a wedding photographer? 31 upvotes · 69 comments Photographer
missed some big shots r/weddingplanning • 5mo ago Photographer missed some big shots 76 upvotes · 29 comments Photographer cost vs quality? Chicago) r/weddingplanning • 3y ago
Photographer cost vs quality? Chicago) 10 upvotes · 45 comments How did you all pick your wedding photographer? r/weddingplanning • 2y ago How did you all pick your wedding
photographer? 9 upvotes · 44 comments Does anyone else feel like photographers sometimes“ruin the moment”? r/weddingplanning • 6mo ago Does anyone else feel like photographers
sometimes“ruin the moment”? 38 upvotes · 27 comments I regret hiring my wedding photographer r/wedding • 1y ago I regret hiring my wedding photographer 139 upvotes · 135 comments
Curious how much you paid for photographer and videographer and how many hours for each? I’m so overwhelmed with all the various pricing and don’t know what’s normal to spend on a
wedding! r/weddingplanning • 4y ago Curious how much you paid for photographer and videographer and how many hours for each? I’m so overwhelmed with all the various pricing and
don’t know what’s normal to spend on a wedding! 5 upvotes · 19 comments What’s the average everyone is spending on wedding photography? r/weddingplanning • 2y ago What’s the
average everyone is spending on wedding photography? 27 upvotes · 148 comments Is getting a camera worth it for my purpose (see inside for explanation) r/Cameras • 2y ago Is
getting a camera worth it for my purpose (see inside for explanation) 4 upvotes · 10 comments View Post in Tiếng Việt Français Русский 日本語 See more Community Info Section
r/weddingplanning Join WeddingPlanning Discuss your personal wedding planning here! Please be sure to check out our rules. Public Top Posts Reddit reReddit: Top posts of April 13,
2024 Reddit reReddit: Top posts of April 2024 Reddit reReddit: Top posts of 2024 Reddit Rules Privacy Policy User Agreement Your Privacy Choices Accessibility Reddit, Inc. © 2026.
All rights reserved. Collapse Navigation Skip to main content I don't think getting a very expensive photographer is worth it on the (very) long term : r/weddingplanning
r/weddingplanning Search in r/weddingplanning Get App Log In Expand user menu Skip to NavigationSkip to Right Sidebar Back Go to weddingplanning r/weddingplanning • 2y ago
Specialist-Brain-919 I don't think getting a very expensive photographer is worth it on the (very) long term Vendors/Venue This might be an unpopular opinion, but I mostly want to
have wedding photos to show my kids, my grandkids etc and I think spending thousands more on a photographer won't matter at all when we'll look at them in 40 years. I love looking
at old photos from family members and what I see is happy people spending time together, celebrating life events etc, not if the picture is perfect. In all the old photos I look
at, the quality is terrible, half the people have their eyes closed etc, and it doesn't matter! Photos don't have to be perfect to show great memories. Things changed quite
recently with numeric cameras and social media, and I think the need to have everything perfect is kind of ruining the beauty of living in the moment. That is maybe my way of
reassuring myself after hiring a photographer way cheaper than the average where we live, but we love her pictures and they don't have to be technically perfect to be great
memories in my opinion. EDIT: We love our photographer's pictures and editing skills, she is cheap but she has done several weddings and we think our pictures will be great! Maybe
not technically perfect but good enough for us. For us, spending 2k more wouldn't matter enough, we'd rather spend that money on a trip and create new memories. Upvote 229 Downvote
104 Go to comments Share u/Colgate_US avatar Colgate_US • Promoted Get ready to WOW. Brush your way to a brighter smile with Colgate Optic White Pro Series. Shop Now shop.mikmak.ai
Clickable image which will reveal the video player: Get ready to WOW. Brush your way to a brighter smile with Colgate Optic White Pro Series. Collapse video player 0:00 / 0:00 Join
the conversation Sort by: Best Search Comments Expand comment search Comments Section u/EmeraldLovergreen avatar EmeraldLovergreen • 2y ago We love candid photos and we told our
photographer that we wanted to focus most of our attention on them. That said, frequently a less expensive photographer may miss the good moments because they aren’t as
experienced. When we were comparing the galleries between the person we chose and someone less expensive, the less expensive person’s candid shots just never had a subject. It was
never little Susie trying to get little Billy to dance. Just a bunch of random shots. I hope your photographer gets all those shots for you OkProfession5679 • 2y ago • Edited 2y
ago I agree with this. We hired a relatively inexpensive photographer - about 2500-3k? Don’t remember - and the candids were not really that great. But that’s ok, there were enough
photos for us to get the shots we loved. u/EmeraldLovergreen avatar EmeraldLovergreen • 2y ago We paid $3,000 which is experienced in our area, but not top of the line. We did some
posed shots as well but I really wanted to see interactions with our guests. Both with us and also just throughout our reception. And she did an excellent job. Additionally she
helped us plan out our day. We had done a mock up with the restaurant and then she helped us narrow things down further. u/Sutaru avatar Sutaru • 2y ago That’s inexpensive? That’s
pretty high end in my area, LOL. We paid $3k and our photographer was amazing. When I got pregnant, we hired her again for maternity/newborn photos, and she takes pictures of us
every year. We love her. 1 more reply 1 more reply u/edessa_rufomarginata avatar edessa_rufomarginata • 2y ago Profile Badge for the Achievement Top 1% Commenter Top 1% Commenter
We are also focusing almost exclusively on candid style photos, and there's a pretty clear difference in the quality of the candid photos by the more expensive photog vs the
cheaper one. I recently had a friend get some pretty bad wedding photos done and I didn't realize how I was going to care so much how they turned out until I saw how badly they can
go. [deleted] • 2y ago We wanted mostly candidate and love our wedding album. I will say my one regret about that is we have very few photos of the two of us both starting at the
camera. I get that wasn’t the style we wanted but I don’t think my grandma wants our candid photo hung on her wall 2 more replies mislysbb • 2y ago I think in some aspects you get
what you pay for, but if quality isn’t high up on the list of priorities then to each their own! 2 more replies u/ClancyCandy avatar ClancyCandy • 2y ago We hired a relatively
expensive photographer; we have one photo on our wall and one on the mantle. We never even bothered getting an album made 😂 Honestly so long as you have a handful of decent photos
that’s really all you need- I think I’ve looked at my parents album two or three times in my life, it’s definitely not the be all and end all! Our graduation photos, travel photos,
and photos with our children mean an awful lot more to us than our wedding photos, and none of them came close to the same price! u/Throwawayycpa avatar Throwawayycpa • 2y ago
Honestly I’ve only seen my parents album once and I have watched their video more … that’s why we absolutely opted for video. I know some people are in favor of more expensive
photos and no video but we’re not doing that. u/ClancyCandy avatar ClancyCandy • 2y ago We watched our video twice all the way through and have watched different clips at various
times. I think long term we will appreciate the video more; especially the speeches/toasts! 2 more replies Specialist-Brain-919 OP • 2y ago I absolutely think this will happen to
us! We'll post some pictures of social media, share all the pictures with our friends, but after a few weeks except the few we'll print and hang in our house we'll probably never
look at them ahah u/ClancyCandy avatar ClancyCandy • 2y ago • Edited 2y ago I’ve been in weddings where I haven’t even seen a whole lot of photos, only the ones the couple put on
social media- Except for very close family I don’t think many people want to see more than the top 10 photos really! I’ve also ask a dozen people for recommendations on getting an
album made (so few photographers do them in-house nowadays) and only one couple in my circle has had a full album made! Most just get a photo book made online, and we haven’t sat
down to do that in the last two years! 1 more reply u/Zola avatar u/Zola • Promoted Fast to build, easy to curate, and filled with what you actually want. Fast to build, easy to
curate, and filled with what you actually want. Fast to build, easy to curate, and filled with what you actually want. Fast to build, easy to curate, and filled with what you
actually want. Fast to build, easy to curate, and filled with what you actually want. welcome.zola.com Sign Up nicole_1 • 2y ago I very much disagree but the nice thing about
weddings is you get to decide what’s important to YOU and not anyone else ❤️ Specialist-Brain-919 OP • 2y ago Absolutely! That's a very nice comment :) inkmetalandlace • 2y ago You
gotta prioritize where you spend your budget. If photography isn't worth it to you then don't spend the money there. A little easier said than done because of Unsolicited Opinions
but you just have to learn to tune out the noise. SitaBird • 2y ago I totally get it. We paid one of our art school friends to shoot ours for under $1000. That said; you sometimes
get what you pay for! There are many horror stories of unvetted beginner photographers never sending the photos, or making the clients wait months or a year or more for their
photos. Or, they do a horrible job editing. So, choose wisely. “Budget” photographers can sometimes cost more in the long run. 2 more replies newyorkgirl914 • 2y ago What I did was
hired a friend that was starting off her Photography business (she's successful now) I was her first wedding she ever did, the photos came out great and she charged me very little
as she needed the experience and I was on a tight budget at that time. I also had friends taking additional photos . 4 more replies sthetic • 2y ago It's totally fine for you to
hire a less expensive photographer. But some of the benefits you may miss out on (which, again, is fine): They don't just give you hundreds or thousands of photos; they spend time
after the wedding to sort through them and only send you an assortment of the best; They provide you with a less stressful experience on the wedding day, by scoping out good photo
locations, having a plan and schedule that matches your expectations discussed ahead of time, being able to adapt to changes, being great at directing poses in a friendly and
efficient manner, giving you their full attention, etc. Your wedding day is SHORT. There is a benefit to having experienced professionals who reduce your stress rather than add to
it. And one more time: it's totally fine for you to choose a less expensive photographer who may not have those benefits, and still be happy with the results. silverrowena • 2y ago
'Very' expensive, maybe not - I see people hiring photographers at upwards of $10k on reddit - but it was a priority item for us, yes. Our photographer is about average for our
location but she is someone whose style we really love. I'm an amateur photographer (was pro for a while) so it's really important to me that we're hiring an artist and we want to
pay a good rate for good artistry. u/Official_ATTFiber avatar u/Official_ATTFiber • Promoted Home internet from AT&T that works the moment you plug in at a simple, straightforward
price. Learn More att.com Thumbnail image: Home internet from AT&T that works the moment you plug in at a simple, straightforward price. thescaryitalian • 2y ago This is such a
good example of how different everyone’s priorities can be. The photographer we picked is our most expensive line item after venue/catering (we’ll pay probably $7k all in) but her
photos are truly art. She has a fine art photography background and it shows in the way she plays with angles, heights, and exposures. I won’t be going back to look at the group
family portrait, but I will be going back to look at the more experimental shots and simple candid moments that she’s made beautiful. If you can’t tell, I’m so insanely excited
about our photographer! GirlieGirl81 • 2y ago I got married in 2022. I reached out to my dream photographer and her packages outrageously expensive! Although her photography was
insanely gorgeous, the price point made hiring her a complete non-starter. I was beyond bummed. So, I did a ton of research and eventually selected a photographer who was much more
affordable. Several weeks after our wedding we received our photos back, and the pictures were absolutely stunning. You don’t necessarily have to break the bank to get beautiful
wedding pictures. My advice would be to do some research and select someone who does quality work within your set budget. 1 more reply [deleted] • 2y ago • Edited 2y ago To give
another perspective, when my parents got married they hired an inexpensive wedding photographer and the photos came out terrible. My mom was so sad and disappointed and in all the
years my parents were married they never displayed the photos. My parents are divorced now (unrelated to the photography 🤣) but now that I’m getting married I convinced her to show
me some for the first time ever and yep - they’re bad. The lighting is dark, people are caught off guard and not smiling, he missed a lot of key moments. Many of the family members
in the photos have passed and I would’ve loved to see some clear shots of them during happier times, particularly both of my grandmothers who both passed 3 years before I met my
now fiancé. It kinda broke my heart sorting through all these awful photos and not a single one of either of them smiling next to my parents. I agree with you that not everything
has to be instagram perfect but quality does matter. 2 more replies [deleted] • 2y ago • Edited 2y ago Totally agree with you OP! The wedding industry is massive and just keeps
growing. It just makes us feel like we NEED to splurge. and it’s socially acceptable to bite the bullet and just spend because “you only get married once” and otherwise “you’ll
regret it forever” and miss out of a “once in a lifetime opportunity” etc etc etc That social pressure can also come through sentiments like “you get what you pay for” because it
can create fear / anxiety about decisions. It assumes you’re going to have regrets or have terrible service or something. But with anything else, risks can be mitigated by looking
at third party reviews, interviewing the vendor, etc. but of course, there are no guarantees (for anything!) but I think fear is generally a great motivator to get people to spend
more For those who splurge on photos / vids, all the power to you! But there are a lot of us who don’t feel like the wedding day is the end and be all (especially those of us who
are financial conscious). There are lots of special days and moments and celebrations in a lifetime, each memorable and priceless in their own way. We also booked a budget
photographer. My parents didn’t have a photographer for their wedding - friends took candid shots on disposable cameras in the 80s and they’re great. The whole wedding was a budget
wedding. Sure the decor was bad, the seating was bad, the photos were amateur / people looking every which way, lighting was terrible, etc (very much like what you described in
your experience). but everyone’s smiling and happy and I absolutely loved looking at the pics over the years. 1 more reply DemCheex • 2y ago • Edited 2y ago Eh… I wouldn’t trade
our photographer or our engagement photos for anything and I’m looking forward to more great photos from them on our wedding day. I think hiring an experienced photographer, who is
excellent at their craft, to capture the memories of a lifetime is so important. And sometimes, that means $$$ - you get what you pay for. It’s the only way the visuals of those
memories live on. Arguably, photography is the second most important thing for us after food. We have both a digital photographer and a film photographer for this reason.
Wannabe_Journalist27 • 2y ago I totally agree! I feel like I’ve seen instagram reels that are like well if you spend a ton of money on wedding photos but you look at
them/appreciate them every day for the rest of your life, then really they’re free. Idk I just can’t imagine I’m looking at my wedding photos that much. I really like our
engagement photos, but I don’t look at them everyday ?? Our photographer is really talented + was a little under budget and we’re so excited to work with her! New to Reddit? Create
your account and connect with a world of communities. Continue With Phone Number By continuing, you agree to our User Agreement and acknowledge that you understand the Privacy
Policy. Related Answers Section Related Answers Best tips for choosing a wedding photographer When choosing a wedding photographer, focus on style, personality, and transparency.
Prioritize seeing full galleries over curated portfolios, as consistency across an entire event is crucial. Ensure a good personal connection, as the photographer will be with you
throughout your special day. Finding the Right Style and Quality Review full wedding galleries, not just highlights: Don't rely solely on social media or website portfolios, as
these are often curated to show only the best shots. "Do not pick a photographer based on their website portfolio - ask each photographer to send you a few full galleries from
weddings." Match their style to your vision: Understand different photography and editing styles (e.g., documentary, editorial, light and airy, dark and moody, true-to-color) and
choose one that aligns with your preferences. "I would begin by having a clear idea of the types of photos you want for your wedding, do you lean more documentary (candid) or
editorial (posed) or somewhere inbetween?" Assess their skill in diverse conditions: Look for photographers who can deliver excellent results in various lighting situations and
environments, as your wedding day may have unpredictable elements. "Photographer here- I always tell people when looking at a photographers portfolio to look for photos from a
variety of lighting situations." Prioritizing Personality and Professionalism Choose someone you genuinely connect with: You'll be spending a significant amount of time with your
photographer on your wedding day, so a good rapport is essential for natural and comfortable photos. "Ultimately I felt like our connection over our video call wasnt really there
and once I saw a full album I wasnt that impressed (when you are interviewing request to view a full album to see more than just their best shots)." Look for clear communication
and transparency: A professional photographer should be upfront about pricing, contracts, and their process, and be responsive to your inquiries. "I only looked at photographers
who had their pricing available on their website because I just believe in price transparency and I didn’t want that part of wedding planning to feel like a second job." Inquire
about their backup plans and experience: Ask about their contingency plans for unforeseen circumstances, such as illness or equipment failure, and ensure they have adequate
experience and insurance. "The question I always ask is what happens if the photographer wakes up on wedding day with Covid or similar - what their backup plan is." Practical
Search Strategies Utilize venue recommendations: Check if your venue has a list of preferred vendors, as these photographers will already be familiar with the location and its
unique aspects. "You could start with the preferred vendor list at your venue." Leverage social media and personal referrals: Explore Instagram tags for photographers in your area
and ask recently married acquaintances for their experiences and recommendations. "I stalked reputable venues (Including the one I chose) that I liked in my area and looked at all
