business. The problem was I valued photography and photographs of families at such a high level. I wanted to get paid fairly for beyond what the market was willing to pay. So, it
took three years of of pounding it out trying to get a business going that the market was not going to support. I had a conversation with a potential client one day who I I needed
the business and I was going for it. I was making my best pitch possible. She sat back in the chair and she said, "Well, that sounds great and all, but I don't have the luxury of
worrying about my children's memories. I don't know how I'm paying my rent this month." And that I literally sat back in the chair and thought, first of all, it's the first time
anybody ever called what I did a luxury. I hadn't thought of it as a luxury. Okay, that's when my life changed. It was then I realized I needed to completely revamp, rebrand my
business, realizing this is a luxury item. As a photographer, I had a very high average sale. And this is the this is the way I want photographers to think. Whatever your average
sale is, one of the other lessons in my keynote I talk about is that when money isn't an issue, multiple ch multiple choices are the Who You’re Really Competing Against challenge.
There's a really good chance your customers are not deciding between you and another photographer, maybe at an early stage, but let's say they've primarily chosen you. What they're
what they're choosing between is whether they want to spend whatever amount of money in your services versus all the other places in life, they can spend the same amount of money.
I was highriced. My competition was not other photographers. My competition were jewelry stores, weekends in New York City, Broadway seats, right? My competition was all the places
my clients could spend a comparable amount of money. And that's when you realize you're a luxury business. And that's when you realize you have to think differently. And that's
when you realize you have to sell and elevate everything around you bigger than the price. And now let's dig into it. someone is accepting okay I'm a luxury brand even though I
don't consider myself that how do I meet this luxury market so how must we change how we sell to start resonating with some of those emotions that you mentioned a all emotions
right I'm I'm surprised Selling Emotion Instead of Tangible Products at how often I go to photographers websites and quite frankly they often look like more like an online
portfolio rather than a vehicle to sell the emotions that drive the choice. So when I talk about elevating everything around price, emotions, what are driving the emotions? Looking
back at my own marketing as photographer, particularly when I felt like it really had had switched. I mean, we're all selling something tangible. Even digital vials are tangible,
right? We're selling something tangible. I was selling large artwork, large portraits for the wall, a tangible item. But that's actually never what I sold. what I sold and what I
spoke of. And it wasn't just emotions. It was a specific scenario. I focused on the moment the parents stopped walking down the hallway because they just walked past a family
portrait that I did. And it stops them in their tracks and they realize how much their children have changed, maybe even left the house. So when you understand like that's the
those are the moments you're selling, you start removing the tangible competition of it from your industry because that's one of our biggest challenges today is that people are
going to compare, you know, tangible items. You want to get out of that. That commoditizes the industry. You don't want people thinking just I mean you're going to produce
beautiful photographs, okay? But you have to sell it in a way that it's bigger than the tangible. Driven by emotions, driven by what I'll share with you right now I think is the
most important selling message or branding message you can offer today and that is selling transformation. Okay, just really let that sink in. what the world is buying right now.
And here one of the advantages, Pat, of being in the luxury space is the luxury market is always leading the way, right? Because of their discretionary abilities, discretionary
dollar abilities, they will tend to be the first to to follow a trend. Um, often the first to leave a trend, the first to come back, whatever it might be. But one of the advantages
I Why Transformation Is the New Luxury have and have always had in this in the luxury market is that I could get a glimpse as to what's coming before we see it elsewhere in the
mainstream market. What I will tell you in the luxury space, what's selling is transformation. My first glimpse in this was in the luxury travel industry when my connections I have
in luxury travel were telling me that people were no longer inquiring about simple vacations or relaxing vacations. They wanted vacations that were going to change their lives.
They wanted vacations that were educational. They wanted to book vacations for their that included their kids where their kids would walk away having learned something. There's
less interest in just sitting at a resort and chilling. Not that there wasn't a place for that, but there's an absolute increase. So my challenge to everyone is to think about in
what way does your photography actually transform how somebody feels about themselves feel transforms life? Does it budwoir photography? Right? Does it transform someone into
somebody more confident? Does it transform uh someone into feeling better about themselves? one of the most significant sessions I ever did in my 40-year career. And I was by no
means known for doing anything close to budoir, but a client that I had photographed for decades and photographed her kids had was going through a very rough time in life and her
marriage and she contacted me to say she felt like her confidence as a woman had been stripped and she felt like being photographed in an intimate, beautiful way. for her to have
an album even only for her to look at. This was not being done as a gift for her husband or anything. It was her reclaiming her identity. And she chose photography to do that. Not
plastic surgery, not a trip. She chose photography to transform her life at that moment from feeling stripped of her femininity to wanting to step into it. Photography has that
potential in all genres. Just think about in what way is what you offer transformative to somebody's life. That's your brand messaging. That's what people are buying. Building a
session into transformation is a totally different way to think about it because it seems as though we're trained to build our sessions into a stack of Lego pieces products to end
up in this much dollar amount because I need to make this much money as a photographer. And it's almost very inward. Thank you for being my client. Let me sell you X, Y, and Z so I
can make enough money. And if I'm hearing you right, it's not about all that stuff at all. It's what's the transformation we're providing for the client. And when you do that, is
that when the concern about money goes out the window because you've actually rang the bell with them emotionally? Very much. And I'm glad you you're phrasing it this way because I
look at it as the evolution of experience, right? Because for 20 years we've been as businesses have been focused on creating a good experience for our customers. Experiences are
transactional, right? Giving somebody a great experience. And again, you asked earlier, where does this show up in the luxury space uh before it hits the the main market? One of
the great challenges we have for those of us serving the very affluent space is there's no experience that we could provide they haven't had, right? a glass of champagne while
viewing their proofs does not impress them. They've had like you know whatever whatever concier service you're offering they've experienced in the luxury market. So it has always
upped the game where we transactional experiences aren't enough and it became increasingly more so which is why again we're seeing this idea of what's transforming people's lives
exceeding expect uh expectation or experiences. So transformation the way in which what you do what you offer it can be the experience itself right the experience itself can be
transformative but it it has it's only defined as transformative if it goes beyond the transactional period if it's just a great session and they feel good about themselves that's
a great experience. If the experience made them feel confident, if the experience brought together a family, if the experience was a family reunion that was gathering, if the if
you can tell the difference because a transformation is what they're going to talk about long after the transaction is over. So I look at the whole idea of how do we create
transformative moments for our clients is they're talking about it long after the transactional experience is over. A great experience is almost not enough today which sounds
defeating if you're good at From Great Experience to Lasting Transformation what you do. It's like I've worked so hard to make these great images. this should be enough and now I
got to do transformation and maybe I have to put on a bunch of u I don't know items into the sale that I don't feel really comfortable about. But you've talked about authenticity
still being important. So how do we weigh these two things where oh my gosh I might not be enough to offer a transformative experience and to try and get there I might have to
sacrifice some authenticity. That's not good in the luxury market either is it? Well, here's the thing. I photographers are actually at an advantage here. I mean, imagine if you're
selling a widget, right? That's a challenge I have posed to manufacturers of some pretty boring items [laughter] to say, well, how is this transformative, right? But technology can
transform our lives. It's like technology can be sold as a widget or it could be sold as a technology that's going to give you valuable time back in your life that you can spend
with your loved ones. That's a whole so that piece of technology that's where it's transformative. I actually think most photographers the the ethos of transformation and power and
emotions exist in the industry. They just don't realize it and they don't sell it. But I I see photo I've always seen being a photographer being at an advantage in that we're
already selling something emotional. Imagine if you were in the industry where you were selling something unemotional to begin with. You have a long journey to go. You're already
doing something that is so emotional for people and transformative. You just have to define it for yourself. How is it transformative? How is it transforming people's lives? What
are what can you do? What can you offer? What can you create that is beyond the experience that they're going to talk about for long after the transaction is over. That's what
people are willing to pay for. That is when how people feel about themselves is greater than the money. People are spending across all market segments right now in a time in a time
and place when we're recording this when life is pretty uncertain. But people are spending lot money on spa experiences right uh getaways that are educational um are you know again
transformative people are willing to invest where I can you know retreats where I can invest the money but I can come back a different person I can be transformed as a person
that's where people are spending their money today so the challenge exists like where can we convey that through photography you mentioned the uncertainty right now. I've heard it
said that the true luxury uh field, the true luxury level really doesn't go away. The middle of the market may go away in an economic hard uh downturn, but the real luxury market,
they're going to be there for you if you're there for them. Is that true? Yes and no. And that again, this is Is the Luxury Market Recession-Proof? where I think, you know, having
had a glimpse into the luxury market for so many decades is really helpful. They do lead the way. So there are plenty of people in the luxury space right now that are speaking doom
and gloom and there is significant evidence that people aren't spending it. Like a lot of luxury brands are really scrambling because people are not spending the same amount of
money. I'm vocal enough to write articles and put out content that says the the issue is not that people aren't willing to spend the money. You all aren't doing anything
interesting enough to get [laughter] people to spend money. Right? I mean, let's just call it what it is, right? I mean, it's same with attention. How often we hear, "Oh, consumers
today don't have an attention span." Yes, they do. You're just not being attention worthy, right? So, again, this is where if money isn't the issue, if we can stop making money the
excuse, we can call upon ourselves to think more. Now, I'm not naive to think that there aren't times when money is more challenging. But again, it's not doing any good to sit and
and wallow in that reality. What can you do? People will always spend money. Money will always circulate. I think one of the the reasons I mean there's a lot of reasons why the
world is uncertain right now. Um, but when it comes to spending, so for example, you're just saying the the and I just did a an article on this, uh, the $10 million and more luxury
real estate market is booming. Okay, the middle market, my house is on the market. It's only been 3 weeks, but you know, I can tell you it's quieter, right? The middle market is
much quieter. Over $10 million of spending. Why is that? It's and research and this is I wrote the article I did because I read this article about this real estate boom over 10
million and while I love the data I was actually a little ticked off because the article never asked the most important question. What's the psychology of the behavior that's
driving this? So I did my own research and realized in part it's not just because people at that level of wealth have the money. It's not that they typically buy in cash so they're
not dealing with mortgage rates. Like yeah those are some of the logical reasons but it doesn't compare to the emotional reasons and the emotional reasons are people are will
invest anything and if you have the money they want retreats right they want a gorgeous home away from the riff raff they're building they want homes that I have a number of
clients coaching clients that are in the interior designer space that are creating homes that are complete retreats like the the design style has changed now we're talking about
homes that have, you know, re exclusive resort types of environments to them, right? Why? Because I mean, the interior design industry has the potential of booming. Mhm. Because in
a world that feels out of control, the one thing you can control is your environment. So, you know, I don't know that it's true that the the high-end market is always thriving.
I've definitely encountered many times when it came to an apparent standstill because they are very they are the first to react. But what they're reacting to is life is boring.
Somebody better show me something more interesting for me to open up my wallet. So that becomes the challenge. I just think like I said, they're very quick to respond because they
get bored quickly. They're like, "Eh, nothing's interesting. [laughter] Do something. Get my attention." And let's talk about that. So we want to be a luxury brand. You say that we
have to stand out and get our attention. How do we get the attention of a luxury brand uh audience? Okay. So, that's a big question, Pat. How to Attract and Embody the Luxury
Client Um, if you've decided, and again, I'm always really care particularly with most industries, specifically photographers, because they have a soft spot in my heart. I don't
want it to feel like the opportunities exist only for people in the high market, right? because you're all in the luxury business because you're selling something people don't have
to have. Um, having said that, if you have a desire to reach the most luxurious clients, first of all, the most important thing you can do is understand their world. And this is a
huge overlooked step. I refer to it as embodiment. And you're going to embody two things. You're going to embody the life of the people you're going to serve. I think it's fair to
say I don't like to speak in absolute. So let's say 99.9% of people serving the luxury buyer didn't come from that world. And I've been in this industry for a long time and I I I
don't think I've ever met somebody that is a sales associate at Cardier or Tiffany or a sales associate or you know Rolls-Royce. I've never met anyone in that position that came
from a wealthy background themselves. They may have created their own wealth, but they didn't come from that. So, that's the reality for most of us. If you're going to choose to
serve the luxury buyer, you have to recognize you probably didn't come from their world. So, step number one is you need to embody what the world looks and feels like from their
perspective. Go to high-end stores. Go to the the brands you might not even know about today. I could toss out brand names that you may not even ever heard of because at that level
of wealth, there's sort of a secret language thing going on, right? There's brands out there that they buy that you don't know about. Find find out about them. Do some research.
Visit them. Understand the ethos of those brands. Go there and and just embody the experience. If you were your ideal client, what do you need to see, hear and feel from that
brand? How can you replicate it? Okay, so step number one is you have to embody their life. You have to what that will do is it will shed misunderstandings, judgments, assumptions
because you have to understand their their world is again I I spent 40 years hanging out with you know very affluent families in mansions and I'll tell you what their world is not
full of rainbows and unicorns. It is ch I wouldn't want it to be honest with you. You know I wouldn't even want it because they're they're they're lovely people. I love every one
of the clients I ever worked with. There only two clients in 40 years. One a client I fired. The other client never became a client because I didn't like her attitude from day one.
Um so I wouldn't work with her. Two in 40 years. So I think there's a pretty good offer. I worked with lovely people who were very family centric. They were hiring a family
photographer. They cared about their family but their lives are challenging. Man, I I [clears throat] said I don't know if I would want it. So obviously my level of empathy
increased and your when your level of empathy increases your ability to really understand them also increases and your judgments and assumptions of what you think it must be like
to live on easy street hopefully fall away. The second thing you need to embody is what's the lifestyle you want? This goes beyond vision boards. Like I'm talking about embody it,
right? whatever whatever scale of life you want and that's a very personal choice but it has to not be foreign to you in order for you to achieve it. So if you desire a lifestyle
that's relaxed a lifestyle that is without financial restrictions to some degree if you desire a life of greater ease and and financial ease you have to know what that feels like.
that can't feel foreign to you. So the more you can I mean when I was starting out with what little money I made as a photographer I spent it on luxurious experiences which had a
twofold benefit. On one hand I would go to a spa go to a restaurant. It helped me see their world but I also didn't want such luxuries to be be foreign to me anymore. I wanted it
to be natural because that's a that's a process of receiving. When you when that becomes your normal, you're able to receive it more. So, there's a real energetic quality to what
it means to embody the life of the people you want to serve and embody the life that you want. Another way that we have to show up is we have to be not just great. I've heard you
say that great isn't good enough anymore. that we have to have this amazing transformation emotionally, but our work and our our stuff just being great doesn't match their
expectations. Can you talk about that? Yeah, I mean it's a big part of when I launched my book, Sell to the Rich, I Why “Great” Isn’t Good Enough Anymore mean literally the tagline
was great isn't good enough, right? Um great has become standardized. uh you know whether it's great service, great quality, great products, that's table stakes, right? Everybody's
expecting great. So when they receive great, they don't tell anybody. It doesn't surprise them. If they receive less than great, they're going to tell everybody they know on
Facebook, right? So you have to go beyond great. And it's I look at it as the exceptional level. like what's beyond like how do you how do you really blow them away? And one of the
ways of doing this and again easier for photographers than most because we're in their lives. What moves people is what you know about them. Making people feel seen is incredibly
powerful. I'll give you a specific example. We had a procedure in my photography business that when someone rescheduled an appointment, which was pretty frequent, we had a very
busy clientele. lives changed quickly, but anytime one of my team members received a message their client was needing to postpone, either they called, they emailed, they text, um,
in whatever way our my team member could, they would inquire like, oh, you know, or actually, honestly, most times the clients offered it. Oh my gosh, I have to reschedu because my
daughter's soccer team made the playoffs. Or, you know, they would give it, they would give a reason or my team member would ask like, oh my gosh, I hope everything's okay. what's
you know is there a reason that got recorded in a central system the next I'm likely to be the next person that sees that client I'm going to see them at their portrait session I
see them at their proof viewing appointment I knew why they postponed a previous appointment so when I saw them I'm like by the way how did Sus's soccer playoff go shocked right
emergency dental surgeries you name it I've I've heard all the reasons and something needs or just got too busy. I hope life has calmed down for you. I always started the
appointment by acknowledging something we intimately knew about them. You know, it was systemized, right? And that's the key. It's like it's it's bizarre how systems and technology
can actually help your business be more personal. We used technology for my team to record the reason. It's always what I looked at before an appointment. I looked at my our
briefing like what did I need to know about this client? Even if I knew them well, I wanted them to feel seen. I also wanted them Pat to know that we were talking about them when
they weren't around, but in a favorable way. It makes people feel special when they know they're a topic of conversation because there's no way I would have known about the soccer
game or their dental surgery if somebody on my team hadn't told me. In this case, it's in their digital file. Mhm. But to them it fades. That's how you know that's one of the one
of the ways I refer to going from great to exceptional is don't just think about client relationships. Think about client bonds. That's an uplevelled version. So I was looking to
create a bond with clients. And we did this by knowing intimate details about their lives, knowing, you know, or offering them things that they would never, we were always a step
ahead. We were always several steps ahead of our clients, right? They would like, oh gosh, I, by the way, I need this. I already took care of that, right? We were always ahead.
These are the things that you could do to create a bond. And a bond that in my case, 70% or more of my business came from repeat clients, right? So think about the bigger picture
of that, Pat. When you have a 70% retention rate, I only had to market to get 30% new business. Okay? So that was a minimal amount of marketing. I did 150 sessions a year. My
business was very mathematical. I did 150 sessions, 70% of which were going to be repeat clients, which we categorized in two ways. One were what we called annual clients. They
were the clients that photographed every single year. And then there were what we called cycle clients. Cycle clients were those that had some sort of pattern that was evident
either either every other year, every 3 years. Like we had recognized a pattern. We're the ones that reached out to them when it was their cycle. We didn't leave it up to them to
remember. Or it may be that they had uh kids that they wanted to make sure all got photographed at the same age. We didn't wait for them to remember. We contacted them and let them
know, you know, so and so is five years old. We did your older kids at five. Time to photograph again. We were able to control the volume because we looked at who photographed
every year, who was a cycle client. That added up to 70% of the business every year for 15 years, right? So, we were driving the business. And it that bond came from the intimacy
that was created between me and my clients. I had a staff of at any given time four to five people. If you asked my clients, they would think it was a business of two. Myself and
my my assistant who was with me for eight years uh 10 years actually. It looked like a business of two because everybody else is the retoucher, the framer, everybody else is behind
the scenes. I was their go-to guy and that was the business model to create an intimate bond that kept clients in my world for decades. We're almost out of time, but I want to
Branding That Matches a Luxury Price Point ask a question that may help somebody if they're thinking, I am serving the luxury market and they want to do it better or someone wants
to shift into the luxury market. Can you comment on branding and messaging because it's more than just like making your logo royal blue and gold and all of a sudden you're now
serving the luxury market. Like I would imagine that market can smell that a mile away. Can you talk about branding and messaging? Yes. And it is a it is a more challenging market
because they their patterns on the internet are entirely different than most um they don't affluent market tends to not spend a lot of time in the market. They have online they
people that do things for them but even a strong referral they're likely to go to your website even for credibility and that is often a huge break. So even if you are coming highly
recommended, think about your own habits. I know, you know, I'm always asking for restaurant recommendations. I still always go to the website to look at the photographs of the I
care less about the menu. I'll eat anything. I just want to the place that looks cool. Yeah. You know that the photographs of the restaurant are more important to me. Um so people
are always going to go to So your website, your branding, it there is a look for sure, but the look is clean. It doesn't. The colors do have a message as well, but this is a
clientele. Well, let me I'll go in a little bit of different direction, Pat. One of the questions we would ask any new client was what was their preferred method of communication.
They could say email, they could say phone call, which I hated. What we were looking for is them to say texting. I'm like, that's going to be a good client because there's a direct
correlation to the speed at which somebody wants to get through something and how busy they are in their lives doing more important things. I didn't want to work with clients that
had a lot of time in their hands. I wanted to work with the clients that wanted to get this moving. And you know what? As a photographer, they're also the ones that leave you alone
to do your [laughter] job, right? Because they don't they're so it's kind of the same idea. It's like you have to if understanding time is one of the biggest selling components of
your client of the luxury client your website better be super simple clean easy navigable navigable I think that's a word they have to be able to get through your website really
simply and it has to speak their lingo hence my first book called lingo so start there buy the book um and buy the last one sell to the rich the combination of the too. We'll we'll
really round it out. But you have to again, why do you want to embody the lifestyle of the people you're serving? So you can understand what lingo resonates for them. How do you
need to speak to them? What do they how do they see the world? Your another another way of looking at it, and I see this all the time, particularly with photographers, your website
should be an indicator of the range of your price point. If you're having a lot of pe if you're trying to reach the luxury market and you have a lot of people contacting you and
shocked by your price, it's because your branding isn't warming them up, right? There should be one of the questions I get asked all the time. Should prices be on a website? I
believe in having a range on the website, specifically if you're higherend. Just let people know they're in the ballpark. They don't need nickels and dimes, but are they at least
in the range? cuz you they will just as much choose you cuz you're too inexpensive as whether you're too too expensive. So that upfront branding messaging, it really has to look
like your price point. Clean. So go to some other luxury brands, mimic what they're doing would be a good place to start. It's a fascinating discussion. It is a different way to
look at the world that folks that aren't serving the luxury market wonder how you can exist in that space. Is there anything we haven't covered that isn't covered in the book or
the first book that you want to share with people before we end the episode? Conclusion And in all seriousness, I do suggest my third book, uh, Sell to the Rich, even if you're not
striving for the luxury of market, because it is it's my most revealing book I've ever written, because I really took the time to unpack very specific stories from my photography
career. It was the first book I wrote after retiring from photography. I did my last photo shoot in September of 23, so it was only a little more than two years ago. And I could
never have written that book when I was still in it. Like when my head was still in this space. That was my first book I wrote since retiring when I sat down and thought about 40
years of memories. There's a story about a client in the book called Mrs. K, which is her initial that so many people have asked me about this because it was one of my first really
high-end clients, that came marching at me because she felt I had was completely ripping her off with my prices. And it was intimidating as heck. But boy, did I learn so much from
that. That first thing I learned is that she gave me a second chance. She looked at me, she goes, "I don't know what you think you're trying to get away with here, but rethink your
approach. Redo the invoice. I'll come back. Right? So, she gave me a second chance to check in with myself and realize she wasn't wrong. Right? I was I was trying to price this
thing like it was this allocart one thing at a time. And she's like, I get that, but there's also a point where I'm not willing to pay you any more than XYZ for the services you
provide. And she was willing to pay a lot. And I I cut that invoice. I'll be honest with you. The invoice went from 50,000 to 25,000. She gave me a check on the spot. She wasn't
wrong, right? But it took So I share that book a lot of stories like that which will teach you a lot about buyer psychology, pricing psychology, the impact of pricing. Um, as far
as what else we haven't covered, I you know, honestly, the most important thing you can do and so overlooked is what I mentioned about embodiment. Like I was a 23 year old that
grew up in a tiny country town. I just clearly understood who I was meant to serve. Like I just felt it in my bones. I just felt like I was I was more comfortable. I knew nothing
about affluent people. I just felt like they would respect me because I had standards, right? And my own family didn't think like I did. So I found the people I was meant to serve
and then studied them, understood their world. That's the most important thing you can do if you are looking to level up in the luxury space or if you're not currently level space.
Just please understand the people you want to serve. Be empathetic. Let down your guard. Let down your judgments and your assumptions. Open up your mindset. I one one of my
favorite line in my entire book, Pat, and I mean this sincerely and it's true to me today as a coach as well. I loved my clients before I met them and I grow to love them more that
I got to know them. If you're not in that position, then I don't think you know you're kidding anybody. I loved my clients before I met them because I only call forward people that
I wanted to work with and then I got to know them and their families and their kids and I just grew to love them more. That's a bond that goes way beyond customer relationship. If
someone wants to get the book, where do they get it? Anywhere you want to buy online books, Amazon, Barnes & Noble, Bookshop, which happens to be one I like. Bookshop gives 10% of
proceeds back to independent bookstores. Um, so I happen to be a big fan of Bookshop, but yeah, any place you uh can buy books online. Fantastic conversation, Jeffrey. Thanks for
coming on the show. I appreciate it. My pleasure, Pat. Always a pleasure to be with you. Thanks for tuning in to this week's episode of the Professional Photographer Podcast. We
are already scheming for our next episode. So hopefully [music] you'll hit like and subscribe so we will show up in your feed next time you log in. The other thing you could do,
which would be really great if you don't mind, leave us a comment. [music] Tell us, what did Jeffree say that made you go, "Wow, I didn't think about it that way." Whoa, that's
going to change the way that I do what I do. Those kinds of comments help us [music] know that we're on the right track and producing a show that you want to see. The other thing
you should do is, well, frankly, you should join Professional Photographers of America. If you're not yet a member, oh man, you're missing it. PPA offers incredible resources
[music] like equipment insurance, top-notch education, and a supportive community of photographers ready to [music] help you succeed. It's perfect for photographers who are serious
about growing their business in a sustainable and profitable way. At PPA, you belong here. Discover more about membership at ppa.com. [music] That's ppa.com. I'm Pat Miller,
founder of the Small Business Owners Community and the host to the show. Thanks for tuning in. We'll see you right here next time. Take care. All From Professional Photographers of
America (PPA) Benefits Browse Magazine About Us Professional Photographers of America 9 tips on the psychology of photo sales Portrait photographer Bry Cox offers tips on high-end
photography sales November 2017 Issue By Jeff Kent FIRST, GET YOUR OWN HEAD IN THE RIGHT PLACE “Sales is really all about psychology,” says Bry Cox, M.Photog.Cr., CPP. “A lot of
people want to make it all about tactics, but it’s not. It’s about understanding people and social dynamics.” A 20-year veteran of professional photography and a nationally known
author and speaker, Cox has spent years perfecting the psychology of sales and helping other photographers do the same. The problem, says Cox, is that most photographers are scared
to death of sales. “But it’s necessary,” he says. “People don’t just come to us. We have to sell ourselves. We have to stand out. We have to show how we can do something better.
That doesn’t mean being pushy or aggressive; it’s just a change in our state of mind.” 9 tips on the psychology of sales, portrait photographer Bry Cox © Bry Cox That change
involves a shift in thinking to the client’s perspective. It means understanding what the client wants, doesn’t want, and what the common objections to a purchase are all about. It
also means better communication to explain what makes you unique and why your method works the best. Cox will delve into these topics in detail during his session at Imaging USA,
Jan. 11-13, 2018, in Nashville, Tennessee. Here are some of his best tips for mastering sales psychology. Simplify. A common misconception is that clients want more options. In
reality, they want quality. Long photo sessions leave clients tired and create too many similar images. This overwhelms the photographer and will overwhelm clients if they have to
do the work of selecting images. Focus on shorter sessions, more quality, and greater variety. Then dramatically narrow down the images so you show only the very best at the
ordering appointment. Focus and streamline. The solution is to offer fewer images but more variety within those images. Guide your clients. Don’t expect them to make all the hard
decisions related to image selection. Show them your artist-selected images—the best of the best. Then explain to them why this process is better for them than viewing all the
images, including all the duplicate shots and every capture of them blinking. Cox tells them, “This is a hard process, but I’m going to do it all for you. When you work with me,
I’ll have everything narrowed down to the best of the best. You just have to think about what you’d like for your home and where it will go.” Working this way leads to happy
clients who understand your process. Then, when they come back, they already know what they want, so the process goes much quicker. 9 tips on the psychology of sales, portrait
photographer Bry Cox © Bry Cox Cater to the 20 percent. Every business exists under the Pareto principle, the so-called 80/20 rule wherein 80 percent of the effects come from 20
percent of the causes. In terms of your business, that means roughly 80 percent of your revenue will come from about 20 percent of your clients. Unfortunately, too many
entrepreneurs design their products and processes for the 80 percent of clients who will account for just 20 percent of their revenue. Focus on your top 20 percent, and design a
sales process around the needs of those important clients. Read your clients. Many people think that mastering the psychology of sales means possessing extensive psychoanalytical
prowess to read and interpret clients’ moods. In fact, it’s much simpler. The first thing to realize is that you’re already interpreting people’s moods in your daily work. When
you’re photographing, you’re constantly reading and adapting. You recognize if clients are uncomfortable, how different poses or situations make them feel, how you can change the
mood and get them to respond to you. It’s the same process in sales: Read and adapt. If people aren’t responding, then it’s your responsibility to reframe the situation and engage
them. It’s not about looking for mystical psychological signals. It’s about paying attention to changes. Look for changes in demeanor and attention. When you see changes, use that
as an opportunity to ask questions and start conversations. 9 tips on the psychology of sales, portrait photographer Bry Cox © Bry Cox Take action to elicit feeling. Encourage
positive feelings toward your studio by taking action. If you want to appeal to upscale clientele, then dress the part, provide a high level of quality, and gear up to deliver a
