upvotes · 46 comments How do you handle wedding guests using you as their personal photographer? r/WeddingPhotography • 1y ago How do you handle wedding guests using you as their
personal photographer? 80 upvotes · 216 comments New to Professional Wedding Photography: Which camera do you recommend? r/WeddingPhotography • 3mo ago New to Professional Wedding
Photography: Which camera do you recommend? 27 comments So yeah… i just had one of the worst experiences shooting a wedding r/WeddingPhotography • 21d ago So yeah… i just had one
of the worst experiences shooting a wedding 103 upvotes · 57 comments Wedding planner used my photos for advertisement. r/WeddingPhotography • 2mo ago Wedding planner used my
photos for advertisement. 57 upvotes · 89 comments Can we please let “editorial wedding photography” die already? r/WeddingPhotography • 6mo ago Can we please let “editorial
wedding photography” die already? r/WeddingPhotography - Can we please let “editorial wedding photography” die already? 53 comments HELP. I cannot get brides to respond to my
initial inquiry reply for the life of me! r/WeddingPhotography • 2mo ago HELP. I cannot get brides to respond to my initial inquiry reply for the life of me! 51 upvotes · 148
comments Becoming a wedding photographer in 2026? r/WeddingPhotography • 3mo ago Becoming a wedding photographer in 2026? 1 upvote · 24 comments Do wedding photographers get
clients from Pinterest? r/WeddingPhotography • 9d ago Do wedding photographers get clients from Pinterest? 9 upvotes · 20 comments Reddit Wedding Photographer Directory [Quarterly]
r/WeddingPhotography • 6d ago Reddit Wedding Photographer Directory [Quarterly] 21 upvotes · 118 comments View Post in See more Community Info Section r/WeddingPhotography Join
Wedding photography This is the home of the wedding photographer community on Reddit and the place for wedding photographers, second photographers, assistants, and those aspiring
to be wedding photographers. This is a discussion based community and the place to share experiences, business insight, creative ideas about our work, and more. Show more Public
Top Posts Reddit reReddit: Top posts of June 25, 2025 Reddit reReddit: Top posts of June 2025 Reddit reReddit: Top posts of 2025 Reddit Rules Privacy Policy User Agreement Your
Privacy Choices Accessibility Reddit, Inc. © 2026. All rights reserved. Collapse Navigation Skip to main content Luxury Agents, who pays for staging/photography? : r/realtors
r/realtors Search in r/realtors Get App Log In Expand user menu Skip to NavigationSkip to Right Sidebar Back Go to realtors r/realtors • 3y ago ZenBuddhism Luxury Agents, who pays
for staging/photography? Advice/Question For homes 1mil+, who pays for staging, photography, etc? Wouldnt it cost ~2k+ for professional photography and staging? Archived post. New
comments cannot be posted and votes cannot be cast. Upvote 7 Downvote 62 Go to comments Share Sort by: Best Search Comments Expand comment search Comments Section AutoModerator MOD
• 3y ago • schulni • 3y ago I paid for staging ($3.5k), window washing ($2k), cleaning ($1.5k), and photography ($1k) for my recent listing ($2.25 million). Commission was $90k so
that seems fair. Upvote 55 Downvote Award Share urmomisdisappointed • 3y ago $90k commission? Holy hell Upvote 15 Downvote Award Share Ill-Worldliness1196 • 3y ago Also how dirty
was it that it was $1500 to clean? How many people? How many square feet? Asking because I used to clean houses for a realtor before I became her assistant and got licensed. I
charged $25 per hour and typically made 200-300 for average square footage (1500-2000). Appliances, inside all cabinets, deep cleaning… Upvote 2 Downvote Award Share
fireweinerflyer • 3y ago One time cleaning fee on a small house is $500+. Window cleaning is expensive but definitely worth it. 8 more replies yourmomhahahah3578 • 3y ago $1500
makes sense on a $2mm house. Mine was $600k and $600 to deep deep clean and we had barely lived in it. 3 more replies schulni • 3y ago House was in rough shape. Actually did three
cleanings during the process so they added up. Yes, dual agency. 1 more reply schulni • 3y ago 4500 sq ft. Just one person but she had let it go after a divorce. 1 more reply
MsTerious1 • 3y ago The cleaning of a 5,000 sq. foot home may involve very unusual features, though. Cupolas with windows that require tall ladders to reach, for instance. 1 more
reply u/ken62310 avatar ken62310 • 2y ago what happens if the house is not sold and the listing expires? Do you eat the losses? schulni • 2y ago Yep - that's the risk. But where I
live that doesn't happen unless the seller is completely unreasonable on pricing, which you'd know up front. 16 more replies StartingAgain2020 • 3y ago The Realtor pays for staging
and pro photography in luxury listings. I have no idea how you could possibly stage and photograph a lux listing for $2k. Not possible in my area unless its virtual staging. In
non-luxury listings the Realtor pays for pro photography. If staging, then the seller commonly pays but this is up to you as the Realtor. Tyrannopawrus • 3y ago My clients give me
a $3000 upfront marketing fee, which will be refunded once the home is sold through me. It helps keep them loyal too. reerees • 3y ago This is the way. There is a section in the
listing agreement(CA) for a deposit. Negotiate that its refundable if sold through you, but non refundable if withdrawn or seller does not act on the advice of the broker.
Something along these lines. ZenBuddhism OP • 3y ago How much is the listing for? 1 more reply 1 more reply Main_Satisfaction619 • 3y ago I always get my clients to pay for staging
3 more replies ClimbAndMaintain0116 • 3y ago Me. Cost of doing business. Write it off when you report the 80k you made on the commission. Putrid_Ad4322 • 3y ago We stage (have two
storage units full of furniture), the staging is free but client pays the movers In and out. We work for a luxury brand (The Corcoran Group), all photos, floorplans, videos can be
charged to our “add budget” that comes from the company. u/thatdude391 avatar thatdude391 • 3y ago I do professional photography. There is a group around here that will stage for
the day have me take photos then pack up. That way you get good photos to get people in the door but they don’t have to pay longer term. Seems to be a very nice in between.
storywardenattack • 3y ago Think about how this sounds to a potential client : “I’m totally the one that can get it done out of all the dozens of other agents, oh, but if I fail
you need to pay me xyz “ Not a great pitch, why would they with with you? Typically, that is a cost you bear and if you fail it’s a part of doing business. [deleted] • 3y ago It
should be part of your sales pitch to even list the house. Also it's a free tax write off for you. ZenBuddhism OP • 3y ago Is there something saying that if the home doesn’t sell,
they owe it back, or if you put in 10k and don’t sell it, it’s counted as a loss? Sorry if that seems like a stupid question RogueOneWasOkay • 3y ago Profile Badge for the
Achievement Top 1% Commenter Top 1% Commenter It’s a loss if you don’t make a sale, yes. I’ll sometimes negotiate for the seller to compensate if the house has to go off market and
doesn’t sell, or they change their mind. I especially push for this if I think a client is being unrealistic about their expectations, or the market is volatile. It’s not written
into the contract so I have to write it myself. Sometimes clients go for it, and sometimes they don’t. cybe2028 • 3y ago If you spend 10k, it’s a write off regardless of if you
sell it or not. You can take a deposit from the seller. Ill-Worldliness1196 • 3y ago Agent pays for photos. Staging, I take it out of closing unless it’s a big commission and great
clients. New to Reddit? Create your account and connect with a world of communities. Continue With Phone Number By continuing, you agree to our User Agreement and acknowledge that
you understand the Privacy Policy. Related Answers Section Related Answers Tips for hiring a real estate photographer Top strategies for closing a sale Best practices for staging a
home How to handle difficult clients Effective marketing techniques for listings More posts you may like How much do you all spend on real estate photography? r/realtors • 5mo ago
How much do you all spend on real estate photography? 8 upvotes · 53 comments u/BigFig-Mattress avatar BigFig-Mattress • Promoted Big Fig is a mattress built specifically for
bigger bodies, with stronger support that actually holds up. Thumbnail image: Big Fig is a mattress built specifically for bigger bodies, with stronger support that actually holds
up. bigfigmattress.com Shop Now As a real estate agent, do you normally take your own photos or hire a photographer? r/realtors • 4mo ago As a real estate agent, do you normally
take your own photos or hire a photographer? 10 upvotes · 128 comments How much do you pay your photographer for the listing photos? r/realtors • 3mo ago How much do you pay your
photographer for the listing photos? 7 upvotes · 59 comments Brand new agent a month in and got a listing r/realtors • 10mo ago Brand new agent a month in and got a listing 36
upvotes · 33 comments What is your current Salary, or if you are a freelancer, Day rate? r/videography • 3y ago What is your current Salary, or if you are a freelancer, Day rate?
72 upvotes · 226 comments Are AI-edited real estate photos going to be a legal issue in 2026? r/realtors • 5mo ago Are AI-edited real estate photos going to be a legal issue in
2026? 14 upvotes · 46 comments As a realtor, how do you break into the business of selling multimillion dollar luxury homes? r/realtors • 10mo ago As a realtor, how do you break
into the business of selling multimillion dollar luxury homes? 48 upvotes · 80 comments Serious question: Why don't realtors take photos of every room? r/realtors • 10mo ago
Serious question: Why don't realtors take photos of every room? 80 upvotes · 172 comments Seller trying to not pay buyer agent commission. r/realtors • 8mo ago Seller trying to not
pay buyer agent commission. 100 comments Career Change from Corporate to Real Estate r/realtors • 4mo ago Career Change from Corporate to Real Estate 6 upvotes · 50 comments Took a
mental break from Real Estate and I feel amazing r/realtors • 5mo ago Took a mental break from Real Estate and I feel amazing 72 upvotes · 32 comments What services can you expect
for a 5% commission? r/TorontoRealEstate • 3y ago What services can you expect for a 5% commission? 5 upvotes · 37 comments Question for realtors regarding marketing r/realtors •
4mo ago Question for realtors regarding marketing 9 upvotes · 49 comments Thinking of getting into real estate r/realtors • 10mo ago Thinking of getting into real estate 4 upvotes
· 44 comments Curious: Anyone Selling 1+ Property/Month But Still Broke? r/realtors • 6mo ago Curious: Anyone Selling 1+ Property/Month But Still Broke? 25 upvotes · 35 comments If
given $2000-$4000 to start a side hustle, what would you choose to do? r/sidehustle • 3y ago If given $2000-$4000 to start a side hustle, what would you choose to do? 17 upvotes ·
76 comments Thinking of getting into real estate? Read this first. r/realtors • 8mo ago SPOILER Thinking of getting into real estate? Read this first. 92 upvotes · 86 comments Who
has bought a home in Los Angeles in the last 5 years what do you do for a living? r/AskLosAngeles • 3y ago Who has bought a home in Los Angeles in the last 5 years what do you do
for a living? 307 upvotes · 424 comments How much do you charge (or pay as a client) for a 2 week volume fill? r/eyelashextensions • 3y ago How much do you charge (or pay as a
client) for a 2 week volume fill? 19 upvotes · 115 comments Listing Agent Refusing to do a Showing r/realtors • 2mo ago Listing Agent Refusing to do a Showing 86 upvotes · 67
comments In my 20 years as a Realtor, I never thought I'd be asking this..... r/realtors • 7mo ago In my 20 years as a Realtor, I never thought I'd be asking this..... 384 upvotes
· 432 comments Realtors Nightmare r/realtors • 5mo ago Realtors Nightmare r/realtors - Realtors Nightmare 86 upvotes · 29 comments Annual Cost to be a salesperson
r/TorontoRealEstate • 3y ago Annual Cost to be a salesperson r/TorontoRealEstate - Annual Cost to be a salesperson 26 upvotes · 63 comments If you're an agent taking your own
listing photos, listen up about LIGHT. r/realtors • 1y ago If you're an agent taking your own listing photos, listen up about LIGHT. 28 upvotes · 25 comments Ever get stuck showing
homes to people who clearly aren’t buying? r/realtors • 9mo ago Ever get stuck showing homes to people who clearly aren’t buying? 76 upvotes · 139 comments Community Info Section
r/realtors Join News and Discussion for Realtors For discussion about what it means to be a Realtor or Real Estate Agent. Industry-specific news, ideas, questions, stories and
anything related to the business of selling real estate. The term REALTOR™ is a registered trademark of the National Association of Realtors. This subreddit is not affiliated with
the National Association of Realtors (NAR) but many of the subscribers are members of NAR. We are a professional forum and professionals should adhere to the NAR Code of Ethics.
Show more Public Top Posts Reddit reReddit: Top posts of June 17, 2023 Reddit reReddit: Top posts of June 2023 Reddit reReddit: Top posts of 2023 Reddit Rules Privacy Policy User
Agreement Your Privacy Choices Accessibility Reddit, Inc. © 2026. All rights reserved. Collapse Navigation Skip to main content I Found this really useful, thought some may enjoy
it: Rich Photographer vs Poor Photographer : r/photography r/photography Search in r/photography Get App Log In Expand user menu Skip to NavigationSkip to Right Sidebar Back Go to
photography r/photography • 7y ago evolhub I Found this really useful, thought some may enjoy it: Rich Photographer vs Poor Photographer Video Play Archived post. New comments
cannot be posted and votes cannot be cast. Upvote 1.7K Downvote 243 Go to comments Share u/WhiteWall_com avatar WhiteWall_com • Promoted From Your Phone to Your Wall. With
WhiteWall's premium printing, even mobile snapshots can be transformed into stunning large-format prints—sharp, detailed, and gallery-ready. Shop Now whitewall.com Thumbnail image:
From Your Phone to Your Wall. With WhiteWall's premium printing, even mobile snapshots can be transformed into stunning large-format prints—sharp, detailed, and gallery-ready. Sort
by: Best Comments Section [deleted] • 7y ago portolesephoto • 7y ago Having control over your gear isn't necessary when you have full control over your subject. When the light is
good and your subject is still, it's possible to take a great photograph with any type of equipment. But to be fair, when the light is subpar and your subject is a wild card, that
$425 setup will struggle to produce professional looking results. LeicaM6guy • 7y ago Agreed. In most environments I work in, subpar equipment would produce subpar photos.
geekandwife • 7y ago But to be fair, when the light is subpar and your subject is a wild card, that $425 setup will struggle to produce professional looking results. Outside of a
reflector instead of another light the 7k setup would have the exact same issues... 32 more replies 3 more replies u/HighRelevancy avatar HighRelevancy • 7y ago Another cheap trick
if you're planning a setup like this: using walls as reflectors. You could probably save yourself the kicker light by doing your shot in a corner and turning the background blowout
light to spill some light onto a wall to the subject's left. You can also use that to get away without using umbrellas. When I first got my flashes I took some portraits in my
bedroom that I was really happy with by pointing the flashes at my small bedroom's walls. And yeah, like he said, any old cloth can diffuse light pretty well. I've used a bedsheet
wrapped over a clothes rack as a product photography soft light box (with the product inside the sheet construction and the lights outside). McRedditerFace • 7y ago I've had some
rather amazing results using a cheap strobe (I literally paid $10 for it) and a wireless trigger I bought for $40... and just parking the single strobe in strategic places while
shooting. This style is incredibly useful for candid photos at parties when there's real crowd and everyone's moving about.... I'd park the strobe ontop of a bookshelf or
entertainment center, bounce it off the wall and / or ceiling based on how much of the room I wanted to illuminate. A lot of it was visualizing the scene like a pool table, and
thinking of the light as the qball... how do you get the light to bounce where you want? If you're really stupidly cheap, you can go without the wireless trigger and just put the
strobe in slave mode... set your on-camera flash to a significantly lower power so it's just enough to trip the slave, but not enough to be the key. 1 more reply u/xiRazZzer avatar
xiRazZzer • 7y ago It also depends very much on the type of photography youre doing. Im pretty sure I could get better results with a full frame sensor when Im shooting astro
pictures [deleted] • 7y ago Well, you don't go hunting an elephant with a Derringer. u/Barrrrrrnd avatar Barrrrrrnd • 7y ago Not with that attitude. u/RubyPorto avatar RubyPorto •
7y ago Depends on what you're imaging. For really bright targets (like planets), the smaller pixel pitch of a crop (or smaller; webcam sensors are popular for planetary imaging)
sensor gives you more resolution from with the same optical system. For faint objects, you're usually not so limited by resolution (nebula have much larger angular sizes than
planets) so the larger collection area of a larger pixel pitch should give full frame an advantage. 3 more replies u/canonusa avatar u/canonusa • Promoted Calling all photo
enthusiasts, hybrid professionals, and advanced creators: The Canon EOS R6 Mark III is here. Shop now. Shop Now usa.canon.com Thumbnail image: Calling all photo enthusiasts, hybrid
professionals, and advanced creators: The Canon EOS R6 Mark III is here. Shop now. u/jadekinsjackson avatar jadekinsjackson • 7y ago The point is all light is light to a camera -
your camera doesn’t know how much you spent and won’t judge you. [deleted] • 7y ago And LED bulbs are very inexpensive, and VERY bright these days. u/scalablecory avatar
scalablecory • 7y ago Eh. Not all light is the same. Especially with LEDs, which often have very poor CRI that affects reds. 1 more reply ToTouchAnEmu • 7y ago It's true that light
is light. But what can't be covered in a 10 minute video is how much more flexible pro level gear is. I've shot on poor man's gear in the past and now I have better gear. If what
you take away here is that you can always make it work, I'm down for that. I just don't want people walking away thinking that pro level gear is pointless. a_w_taylor • 7y ago
Nailed it. It can be done with entry level equipment. BUT - a professional is doing this EVERY DAY! And as such needs to have reliable equipment that will deliver consistently high
level IQ no matter the material, color, background, etc. 5 more replies u/silverwagon avatar silverwagon • 7y ago I commented on this video when it was first published. Since my
view on the topic hasn't changed, here's what I commented on the video before: Full disclosure, I shoot Profoto equipment. Just thought that should be stated upfront. With that out
of the way I completely agree with the point of your video 100% which (I believe) is you can create fantastic images no matter what gear you're using as long as you know how to use
it and how to work with your subject. (If Im wrong on that, please correct me). The "problem" I have with these $$$$$$$$$ vs $ videos is they never explain why professional
photographers use the expensive equipment over the less expensive equipment. Most of the time more expensive gear isn't just about having more expensive gear, its about having gear
that makes it more efficient and easier to get the job done that you need to get done. Sure portraits are pretty "easy" to shoot with just about any type or price of light as long
as you know how to control the light you're using and how to work with the subject. I always carry a speedlight in my bag for simple, effective portraits I have to take because for
simple portraits speedlights get the job done most of the time. However, I do a lot of shots where I have to freeze movement using lights. The flash duration of the lights will
determine how well you can pull that off. Less expensive lights have a long flash duration and dont always produce sharp, crisp images of movement. Most of the more expensive
lights have incredibly short flash durations that give me the results I want 100% of the time. How about you do this video again but instead of the model sitting there, how about
getting a dancer in studio and have her do some jumps and see how well your less expensive light does compared to the more expensive light with a short flash duration (make sure
you zoom in and look at the hands and feet and see if there is motion blur/ghosting). Try the same thing with the dancer but shoot a a high frame rate sequence of her jumping from
one side of the frame to the other create a composite of the images where the flash fires every time (think 10+ fps). Do you think your less expensive light is going to keep up?
Also, were you intentionally trying to increase the price on the Profoto setup by using the much more expensive (and not necessary) heat resistant soft boxes? Your $800 heat
resistant softbox isn't necessary. You could have used the RFi version that is $260. You could have also used a third party softboxes that are even less expensive.
u/Complex_Difficulty avatar Complex_Difficulty • 7y ago Poor photographer uses the $5K camera too? I want to see desk lamps, bed sheets, and a smartphone for poor photographer.
[deleted] • 7y ago Got you covered! https://youtu.be/TOoGjtSy7xY 1 more reply [deleted] • 7y ago So she looks more interested in you if you are rich? 1 more reply u/amirchukart
avatar amirchukart • 7y ago Fucking thank you! In a culture of photographer casually like $600 sand bags made from 100% Egyptian cotton, to support their $1000 lightstand made, and
acting like you're not a real photographer unless you have that, it's always nice seeing someone show how you can make it. Not all of us can afford $10,000 in gear, and some of us
just straight up don't have $10,000, but that doesn't make you less of an artist. 5 more replies New to Reddit? Create your account and connect with a world of communities.
Continue With Phone Number By continuing, you agree to our User Agreement and acknowledge that you understand the Privacy Policy. Related Answers Section Related Answers Comparison
of rich vs poor photographers Why is Profoto equipment so expensive Best tips for flash photography Sunny 16 rule for photography Nikon dynamic area AF settings More posts you may
like What parts of being a professional photographer isn’t talked about enough? r/photography • 1mo ago What parts of being a professional photographer isn’t talked about enough?
82 upvotes · 145 comments u/shopify avatar shopify • Promoted Build your site. Launch your business. Sell everywhere people shop in 2026. Thumbnail image: Build your site. Launch
your business. Sell everywhere people shop in 2026. shopify.com Sign Up Main benefits of Profoto over cheaper brands like Godox? r/photography • 1y ago Main benefits of Profoto
over cheaper brands like Godox? 19 upvotes · 52 comments There are so many photography influencers on YouTube. What percentage actually make money from photography? r/photography •
7d ago There are so many photography influencers on YouTube. What percentage actually make money from photography? 101 upvotes · 158 comments A dilemma of strobes: To shell out for
one single profoto, or two elinchroms w/ modifiers. r/photography • 15y ago A dilemma of strobes: To shell out for one single profoto, or two elinchroms w/ modifiers. 2 upvotes · 4
comments Is Profoto Overrated? How Does It Compare to Godox Today? r/photography • 1y ago Is Profoto Overrated? How Does It Compare to Godox Today? 26 upvotes · 81 comments
Switched to Profoto r/photography • 2y ago Switched to Profoto 14 upvotes · 50 comments What turned you to be a photographer? r/photography • 8mo ago What turned you to be a
photographer? 82 upvotes · 165 comments Wise words for all photographers r/photography • 4mo ago Wise words for all photographers 62 upvotes · 24 comments Older Photographers
r/photography • 2mo ago Older Photographers 77 upvotes · 104 comments The mind of a photographer r/photography • 4mo ago The mind of a photographer 318 upvotes · 53 comments What
would like to get as a gift as a photographer r/photography • 2mo ago What would like to get as a gift as a photographer 10 upvotes · 77 comments The difficulties of getting older
as a photographer r/photography • 16d ago The difficulties of getting older as a photographer 341 upvotes · 154 comments My personal opinion on amateur photographers...
r/photography • 1y ago My personal opinion on amateur photographers... 31 comments Most photographers don’t need better gear, they need better taste r/photography • 1mo ago Most
photographers don’t need better gear, they need better taste 967 upvotes · 415 comments Male photographers taking photos of your gf/wife/partners how do you do it? r/photography •
1mo ago Male photographers taking photos of your gf/wife/partners how do you do it? 21 comments Does anyone else find that the more you learn about photography, the harder it is to
just enjoy taking pictures? r/photography • 2mo ago Does anyone else find that the more you learn about photography, the harder it is to just enjoy taking pictures? 209 upvotes ·
63 comments Best Advice Given to you as a Professional Photographer. r/photography • 6mo ago Best Advice Given to you as a Professional Photographer. 230 upvotes · 169 comments Are
photographer still a good job and will it support life? r/photography • 3mo ago Are photographer still a good job and will it support life? 22 comments I think I'm just a bad
photographer when it comes down to it. r/photography • 2mo ago I think I'm just a bad photographer when it comes down to it. 103 upvotes · 110 comments for people who now have
photography as a career, how did you do it? r/photography • 10mo ago for people who now have photography as a career, how did you do it? 33 upvotes · 44 comments For those who work
a full time job and do photography on the side, what do you work in? r/photography • 1y ago For those who work a full time job and do photography on the side, what do you work in?
81 upvotes · 191 comments Is anyone a part of a photography community? r/photography • 17d ago Is anyone a part of a photography community? 87 upvotes · 78 comments Are you a good
photographer? r/photography • 4mo ago Are you a good photographer? 189 upvotes · 331 comments Anyone else in a crisis with photography? r/photography • 1mo ago Anyone else in a
crisis with photography? 88 comments how i got my first photography job r/photography • 8mo ago how i got my first photography job 33 upvotes · 11 comments View Post in 日本語
Français Русский हिन्दी 繁體中文 简体中文 See more Community Info Section r/photography Join Photography /r/photography is a place to politely discuss the tools, technique, art and culture
of photography and to post topics that would be of interest to other photographers. Show more Public Top Posts Reddit reReddit: Top posts of August 22, 2019 Reddit reReddit: Top
posts of August 2019 Reddit reReddit: Top posts of 2019 Reddit Rules Privacy Policy User Agreement Your Privacy Choices Accessibility Reddit, Inc. © 2026. All rights reserved.
Collapse Navigation Skip to main content Going back in the (portrait) photography business, still worth it ? : r/AskPhotography r/AskPhotography Search in r/AskPhotography Get App
Log In Expand user menu Skip to NavigationSkip to Right Sidebar Back Go to AskPhotography r/AskPhotography • 22h ago Dreefir3 Going back in the (portrait) photography business,
still worth it ? Business/Pricing r/AskPhotography - Going back in the (portrait) photography business, still worth it ? Page 1 (Current page) Page 2 Page 3 Page 4 Page 5 Page 6
Page 7 Page 8 Page 9 Page 10 Page 11 Page 12 Page 13 Page 14 Page 15 Page 16 Page 17 Page 18 Item 1 of 18 Hello everyone! After some years spent in a totally different business I
would like to start again doing photography (events, portraits etc). I'm almost finished with my art accademy (I'm studing oil painting) and now I can start using my gear properly
as my secondary job. I worked mostly as a portrait (and street, but this is another story) photographer (outside the studio) and for a couple of years in collaboration with a
circus I've done theater photography (as you can see in the last 3 shots). The problems is: I live in northen Italy in a small city and I have to start almost from zero again and I
do not want to shot marriages! I know that being picky is not a great idea, I've done 7-8 marriages in the past but they are really esaustive...I asked a company how much I would
get payed as a secondary photographer and they told me 150 euro for 2k images (o_O). And, from what you can see how much should I charge ? Here the market prices are really really
low and some people asked me to work 6-8 hours (from evening till midnight!!) for 50 euro. Usually I ask 150/200 euro for a set that can be around 2-3 hours (or less, if I'm happy
with the results). Do you think is ok or I should start to charge more and move around ? Should I just quit and do it as a hobby or you see potential in my works ? I know that in
the smartphone era and AI my question will sound dumb...but thanks to anyone that will spare some time for my post! Upvote 1.9K Downvote 124 Go to comments Share u/Pipedrive_CRM
avatar Pipedrive_CRM • Promoted Tired of juggling leads? 🤹 Pipedrive organizes your pipeline and helps you close deals faster for ultimate growth. Sign Up pipedrive.com Thumbnail
image: Tired of juggling leads? 🤹 Pipedrive organizes your pipeline and helps you close deals faster for ultimate growth. Join the conversation Sort by: Best Search Comments Expand
comment search Comments Section u/danielbearh avatar danielbearh • 21h ago Your success isn't dependent solely on your photography skills. It depends on the healthiness of your
market. If you're being offered 50euro for photography, that means you're in an area where supply (people with talent and a camera) outpaces demand (people willing to pay for a
certain quality of experience.) You know this intuitively. To survive as a photographer, you'll need a steady stream of consistent business. Unfortunately, in small towns, that's
usually weddings. Your portrait work is phenomenal. You're talented. You have the photographic talent to do the job. You just have to put yourself in a geographic area where people
are actually paying for portraiture. Milan, Rome, Florence/Bologna. These towns have industry to support the type of work I can tell you're driven towards. u/Dreefir3 avatar
Dreefir3 OP • 21h ago First: thanks for your post and time, the problem is that my main business is in the city and moving outside for long periods is not an option! I'll try to
connect more (I've done almost nothing because of the accademy and my other job). Thanks a lot for your compliments! 1 more reply InterestingCabinet41 • 21h ago These are all
great. Nice work. LostTeleporter • 21h ago I don't have an answer. I just want to say that i think the portraits were very nice. I really feel like you managed to capture a bit of
their essence. u/Dreefir3 avatar Dreefir3 OP • 21h ago Thank you!! I appreciate! TeamAffe • 21h ago I would, and this is just my humble opinion, if I were you I would specialize in
black and white photography. The color images are sometimes not so great, and with B/W you can generate more and more attention (which mobile phone user takes B/W pictures?).
u/Dreefir3 avatar Dreefir3 OP • 21h ago Thanks for your post!! As a street photographer I worked a lot on my B&W before concentrating on color with my last camera. I didn't select
all the "best" pictures because I wanted to be as varius as possible. Lava39 • 21h ago I think you have an eye for texture and lighting. Your B&W photos are much better than your
color work. Seriously, those are nice. I have no advise for you other than that observation. goopypungo • 20h ago I agree that your b&w are really cool but i would definitely not
specialize in it, personally i would work to get the color edits up to par AkiraDeathStar • 18h ago The first image is fucking crazy in B&W. The shape of the highlight across the
subjects face is 👌🏻 ThirstyHank • 21h ago This is fantastic work! I think it has more to do with the market for this type of portraiture because the talent level is there. I would
look at publications in your area that regularly feature editorial portraits and submit to them. Sadly, a lot of the marrow has been sucked out of the business and these might have
some value as stock images but AI is coming for that--your best path imho is finding someone who will send you on portrait assignments to accompany their articles. try outlets that
are in your areas of interest. A lot of photographers are holding onto any regular clients for dear life but somewhere there are vacancies. These photos really feel like they could
be for publication, and a publication would get you regular access to more and better subjects. Also check places like Craig's List--it's how I connected with some of my biggest
clients. You almost certainly won't be able to make a living on this work alone, but being published regularly and having a byline will bring more portrait work you can charge a
reasonable rate for. u/Dreefir3 avatar Dreefir3 OP • 21h ago Thank you a lot for your elaborate post! I'll try your advices as soon as possible! u/Infinity-onnoa avatar
Infinity-onnoa • 21h ago La 2°….15 y 17 :) i like it Liberally_applied • 21h ago These are awesome. You do excellent work. u/lucidmotorsofficial avatar u/lucidmotorsofficial •
Promoted Some models end. This one goes further. 900v architecture. Peak charging speeds.* Up to 450 miles EPA-est. range.** Less time charging. More time charging ahead. Lucid
Gravity Grand Touring. Learn More lucidmotors.com Thumbnail image: Some models end. This one goes further. 900v architecture. Peak charging speeds.* Up to 450 miles EPA-est.
range.** Less time charging. More time charging ahead. Lucid Gravity Grand Touring. u/mcarterphoto avatar mcarterphoto • 20h ago Your stuff really has a much more "editorial" look,
like you'd shoot for magazines and advertising and so on, vs. the consumer portrait biz. (that's a compliment, BTW). That could mean your portrait clients would be people with a
more discerning eye that want something more like "Art" than a standard portrait, something really distinctive and expressive and even allegorical - those clients may be fewer, but
might potentially pay more. Reminds me of an old marketing adage - "if you want to drive a Mercedes, sell the people driving Chevys... if you want to drive a Chevy, sell to people
driving a Mercedes". A commentary on mass markets vs. high-end. 1 more reply u/PralineNo5832 avatar PralineNo5832 • 21h ago nice shoots :) u/disturbed_android avatar
disturbed_android • 21h ago OMG, stunning.. u/Dreefir3 avatar Dreefir3 OP • 21h ago Thank you !! Yvorontsov • 21h ago Oh, you are awesome! 1 more reply u/Bresson91 avatar Bresson91
• 21h ago Pitch it as your own business, not through a company who pays you pennies on the dollar and pockets the rest! u/Dreefir3 avatar Dreefir3 OP • 21h ago Yes, that's what I
thought, the least I've asked for a marriage was 4 time their offer. u/energizer_official avatar u/energizer_official • Promoted Big Boss, meet your match: Energizer MAX® Enhanced
Energy™ Shop Now click2cart.com Clickable image which will reveal the video player: Big Boss, meet your match: Energizer MAX® Enhanced Energy™ Collapse video player 0:00 / 0:00
DrFrosthazer • 21h ago Very good shots. u/archtopfanatic123 avatar archtopfanatic123 • 18h ago Profile Badge for the Achievement Top 1% Commenter Top 1% Commenter With shots like
that I'm surprised you're not making it a job for a living! Brilliant work! Also who's the sax player in that one photo? I feel like I recognize him from someplace but can't
remember where 1 more reply aradpotato • 21h ago your work is eccentric! can I ask which camera(s) you use for portrait? i’m an amateur photographer and i’m super inspired by your
work! u/Dreefir3 avatar Dreefir3 OP • 21h ago Hi! Thanks for your post! The first one is from a Fujifilm XT4 and some of the others are from my old fuji X100T! 3 more replies New
to Reddit? Create your account and connect with a world of communities. Continue With Phone Number By continuing, you agree to our User Agreement and acknowledge that you
understand the Privacy Policy. Related Answers Section Related Answers Best lenses for portrait photography Choosing the best lens for portrait photography depends on your camera
system, desired aesthetic, and budget, with Redditors frequently recommending 85mm, 50mm, and 70-200mm f/2.8 lenses for their versatility and ability to produce flattering results.
Popular Focal Lengths for Portraits 85mm lenses are widely considered ideal for traditional portraits due to their flattering compression and ability to create beautiful background
blur. "85mm to me is the ideal portrait length." 50mm lenses are praised for their versatility, offering a natural perspective that closely matches human vision and performing well
for both headshots and wider environmental portraits. "My favorite portrait length for most of my work, but I like shooting a lot looser… full body, or horizontal frame waist up."
70-200mm f/2.8 zoom lenses are a highly recommended workhorse, providing excellent versatility for various portrait distances and offering impressive background separation. "To be
honest, and I know it is heavy: the 70-200mm f/2.8 with stabilizing. Versatile, great bokeh, great background separation. Absolutely stunning." Key Considerations for Lens
Selection Aperture Size (f-stop): A wide aperture (e.g., f/1.2, f/1.4, f/1.8, f/2.8) is crucial for achieving the sought-after bokeh effect, blurring the background to make the
subject stand out. "If you want bokeh, you'll need the aperture of f1.4 / 1.8." Prime vs. Zoom Lenses: Prime lenses (fixed focal length) often offer superior image quality and
wider apertures at a lower cost, while zoom lenses provide flexibility in framing without changing lenses. "Prime with low aperture. 35mm or 50mm usually, I prefer shorter focal
lengths" Sensor Size: The camera's sensor size impacts the effective focal length and depth of field. "To talk about a focal length without mentioning the sensor size is
misleading." Advanced and Specialty Lenses 105mm and 135mm lenses are also popular choices for portraits, especially for tighter headshots, offering distinct compression and bokeh
characteristics. "85mm, 105mm, 135mm and 200mm would be most used portrait lens." Sigma and Viltrox produce well-regarded and often more affordable prime lenses that deliver
excellent image quality for portraiture. "The Sigma 56mm f/1.4 is a great portrait lens." Are you looking for lens recommendations for a specific camera brand or type? See Answer
Tips for shooting in low light conditions How to choose the right camera for beginners Essential gear for landscape photography Creative techniques for macro photography More posts
