So if you see here how we're coming a lot more specific on what we do, how we do it, and where we do it?, you don't need to be specific all the time. We're going to touch on
networking later on, where is we going to use this? versus it be more conversational tone, in some different setting. But the key part about this entire process is it's not set and
forget. You're going to and refine it or over time. This is a really good starting point, because it makes sure that in your head are really clear on what you do when you're
solving it for, what you're looking to target is the outcome and much, much more. And that's where we're going to start to come through to this circular and refinemed brosce. We
need to write down three different versions of your one liner. I don want you to go through it and test it with three different people outside of your industry. If you can't do it
with three different people, make sure you share it with at least one person, for the three different iterations. And Alland, which one confer the most. I would look at doing at
least three people to get really good outputs. Again, we're asking them, is it clear? Would you want to name more? Because we're trying to trigger them, to really understand the
high level offering that we have before going down into the detail? And then we want to pick the version against the best response and go through and refine it over time. Again,
this is going to change a lot over the next coming weeks and months and years as you build a business, but we want to start off really specific to make sure that you know what
you're building, who you're talking it to, to then identify what that solution is going to look like. So we need to remember, be specific who you want to help. We want to quantify
the problem with the door sign or the time sign that you're going to potentially save them. We want to focus on the result, not to the technology actually enabling that. For
example, we want to say, with that customer service I used in the past, we have an AI customer support agent is able to resolve queries 24/7. They don't need to know that it's au
retail support agent that integrates withho as well as other customer service ticking systems, to be able to identify the knowledge of yada. They don't need to know that. It's
always to start off simple, and then later on the details as you need it. Again with cooking, we want them to be interested before we get down into lots of detail. And we want to
try to make it conversational where possible. Now, this isn't a good example, for for example, if he said something like, I do cool stuff with AI, Inst that person is going to be
like, what's cool stuff they do? Where does they do it? How do they do it? What tooling are they doing? It's going to start sparking some questions in their mind to carry all that
conversation. So that's how we can shift it from once we've got it to be call for it the numbers, who, where, how, when, what everything like this, we can start to make it a bit
more conversational over time. how we want to test it with real people is absolutely fantastic. We can test it with AI, but nothing beats testing a human's response, then actually
speaking to humans and seeing vag response. This is going to help us really refine the actual target market we're doing after, as well as how people are going to respond to it,
straight away. Now, that's often this module, I hope it's coming clearer in defining our problems and that quick one like. In this, we're talking about setting and achieving your
goals. This is incredibly important, because we want to be sure that we're keeping that progress, whether it'll be 1%, every single day.' huge loop of bounds over the space out a
month. We're going to first touch on with some common mistakes are for setting goals, and then we walking through a step by step process on how we can achieve the outputs with
measurable targets. So let's jumpstrating. So first things first, why do most people's personal goals fail? First walk is because they're too fake. I want to grow my business.
That's incredibly fake. They're too ambitious in unrealistic. Or they're disconnected and not actually linked to action. And the reason this is really bad is because it's wasting
your time, you could be burning through cash trying to get all of this working. It's going to make you more confused as well as who you're trying to sell to, and they're also need
to burnout, which is where you basically are so drained that you just need to step away from the business entirely. You can also lose a lot of momentum, if you're not out on what
you're doing or why you're doing it, missing opportunities, having an expanding out there, and is going to reduce your motivations, keep going to get the end of a result. So the
road map, we're going to be working with, is the smart framework first. Then we're going touch on a bit aboutKOs, reality testing, and we can reflections. So the first part, smart
goals. Some of you may have heard of this before, and we're going to break down, watch each letter of means. So first all, we're going to have specific, measurable, achievable,
realistic, and time bound goal. Sorry, the first part, specific. Again, we want to be getting as crystal clear as possible or what you want to achieve. Charity is the most key part
when you go through and try and say your own goals, as well as for business. As you can see, here, growing my business could be replaced with, acquire 50B to be customers. So law
firms could actually be on board to 10 law firms onto a monthly retain, a lot more specific. The next part is measurable, and there's an old saying and something that's definitely
true withization background, which is if you can't measure it, you can't manage it. So again, revenue, 10K revenue per a month. We're looking at customers, we want to run 100
signed up. Engagement, we want 30% active users. What if're working, maybe the financial space, you have the net perator school or NPS. That's like a trustilider score, for
example, and that would be 40+. And that's what you're targeting. The next one is achievable. Do you want to challenge yourself? Do you don't want to self sabotage? The reason for
this is because you're seeking and lots of people out there who have achieved are not all claim for achieved a lot in a very short period of time. You want to make sure you're not
trying to achieve maybe their 1000th or 500 step of where they currently are, but rather starting with your own step. This is your own journey that you're going to be going on, and
as you can see, from many, many entrepreneurs out there, you need to make sure you're being realistic with what you've actually need to make sure what you're sitting is actually
achievable within a specific time frame. So, for example, do you have the resources? Do you have the skills? And is it within reach? For example, if you try to compete with Mr.
Beast or everything that he was trying to do, across all the different platforms, to the same quality, and you don't have, you, millions to spend on the production team, the sets,
and the idea of individuals, everything like that, then that's not realistic or achievable in the step. It could be the waterrific. one of the videos, on a smaller scale to start
off with. And that's why the next part comes up, which is we want to be realistic. There's an old saying from Edward Knockholt, which I think is incredibly in keys to keep in mind.
And that's what I want you to see the world as it is, not as you wish it to be. Now, this is very different to a visualization, which we become more than the mindset masterclass,
why I want you to be in here? is try and understand at the moment some of the constraints, some of the others at your stage, and, of course, the unexpected. I want to keep you
thinking as positive as possible, because you really can achieve anything if you set the mind to it, you've just got to think of the different steps of the ladder before you get
there. Don't try and jump to that 500 step, straight away. And that's because if we're being realistic, it doesn't mean we're being unambbitious. They're not correlated together.
You can be realistic, as well as utra ambitious, and that's what we want to be. I wouldn't need to have realistic settings around you at the moment, to have the wildest dreams
possible, that you can go through and have incredible ambition to try and achieve because, as you see over time, the almost dreams are going to become a reality. So that's where we
come to the time bound, because as the Napoleon Hill says, a goal is a dream with a deadline. So that's why I't around being realistic does not mean that you're going to be
unambitious. What it means is that we want to be as ambitious as possible and have so many dreams and goals we want to achieve, but we want to put a deadline in place for that
happen. So we need to break that down into a couple of different letters. So for the first one is if you've got a 12 month plan, I want you to set that as your vision for 12
months. We then need to break that down into quarters. So every three months, we need to have some key miles stones that we want to achieve. Now, a milestone is a sort of an action
that you complete, a measure that you hit, for example, a thousand subscribers, it could be a thousand of your first, you, a nine, whatever you may be, that would be a milestone
you were trying to hit. If we come down again, we want some really clear objectives on what we're going to do this month, to be able to achieve that, because then we're going to
work backwards and have weaking actions that we need to complete to achieve these actions. And the reason for this is because then, it's going to compound over time. If you do one
week incredibly well, that's going to lead to another good week, another good week, and so and so forth, do not underestimate momentum being behind you, then you've got one month,
turns into another month, which turns into a quarter that's been good, and then three quarters four quarter of this combin together is going to make a really good year for you to
have. So how do we bring that all together into a smart adjective? Well, his an example, we want to reach $15,000 a monthly revenue by June 30th through acquiring 50 customers at
an average £300 per month value. So this is where we need to be able to break down on loftiest goal that we have the biggest and wildest dreams that we have into some simple stages
for us to be able to actually achieve them. one step at a tum. So you don't think you'd be able to, for example, 50 customers, start off with 10 customers in the first month.
Again, we want to try and keep our sales being pushed, but we also don't want to over extend our sales at the start, so we lose our confidence and momentmentum, because trust me,
it's going to be harder than you think. and I really hope's not. I hope you absolutely fly from day one. The Viking is going to be a bit more changing and you're going to a set
then you really think at the start. So let's go through your turn now. I want you to start thinking in time frames. There's this really good thing from Toby Robbins, and what it is
is most people overestimate what they can do in a year and wid they estimate what they can do in a decade. So that is the reality. When you step back through your life' short over
the last couple of years, you're thinking you've achieved so much in such a short period of time. So that's why we broke it down. We want one incredibly big goal for the year. We
don't want to break it down to three or four stepping, those quarters within each year, so every three months. We don't want to have a specific alco deliverable that we going to
achieve each month, and then we need dating tasks, that we're going to complete, so that we have a really great week. And that's why you can see here, if you imagine that, circular
line going from yearning to course lead to monthly to weekly, we then go all the way back through up to the start. And that's because over time you'll find that this compound you
get momentum and you'll be able to sustain that for a lot of longer. But we need to also keep an eye out for these traps. We don't want to send too many goals at want. We want to
keep that down to three, which we're going to touch on in a minute. We also need to be able to adjust and be flexible because as the army say, no plan survives first contact or not
by Formula One So for example, you can have the best strategy in the world, but the minute the rain hits the track, that strategy's gone out of the window, and we need to adapt and
adjust. And the reason this is really key is because you're never going to be able to control everything that happens around you and in the world, the en can control what's in your
direct control. So keep that involved. For example, that keep in the amount of work you're putting in, the amounts of hours that you spend on the task, the amounts of networking
you do, the amount of the emails that you do, the amount of branding messages that you do, all these different polse you can control. You also don't want to actually have your
goal, being an outf, but maybe more of an outcome. We want to make sure that we're not ignoring capacity as well, as in how much time that you've got to do it, all setting and
forgetting them and then not touching them again for the next couple of months. And there's so many studies out there, the show over the years, those that actually go through and
set goals.. In this weird, we're talking in your direct control, so keep that in mind. For example, that keep in mind is worth you're putting in, the amounts of the hours that you
spend on the task, the amounts of networking you do, the amounts the emails that you do, the amount of branding messagesings that you do, all of these different parts, you can
control. You also don't want to actually have your goal, being an outf, but maybe more of an outcome. We want to be sure that we're not ignoring capacity as well, as in how much
time that you've got to do it, or setting and forgetting them and not touching them again for the next couple months. And there's so many studies out there that show over the
years, those that actually go through and set goals achieve more, versus those that don't. So ask yourself these questions. Do I have the skills and resources to make this happen?
I want you to eliminate the words from your vocabulary. All you want to stay for example, how do I get them? If not? Always position yourself as being able to solve problems even
your own thinking that there's a look at and you can't do anything. The next one is who has achieved something similar and what can I learn from that path? So this may be looking
outside of your social circle, that maybe have a work or school or a local community. It could be that you're looking at some of the individuals online and take you with a pinch of
sal from what some of the influeners out there actually say. The next one is what's the first small step I can take? I can we want to be thinking about almost I could give a baby?
We want those baby steps first, so that we can go and go and go, and then you can be running a marathon within, you, a couple of months, for example. We want to be starting with
those small steps first, as much as possible. Next, and we're going to help you with this one. We're our weekly R Rusher Template, but how are you going to mention your progress
week by week, and what are your key milesestone markets to achieve in that timerame? And all of these combined together should really help you identify, change your ways of
thinking, from what if I fail, to actually, how do I suceed? We want to be thinking about this all front, right at the start to make sure that we can keep taking action, keep
putting one foot in front the other to achieve our goals. So now I want you to get a go. Come on with a specific, measurable, achievable, realistic, and time bound goal, and to
make it even easier for you, we've done it already. So if you find the link down below, you should find this template all around setting your goals. You've broken it down in here
just like we've covered for being a specific goal, a measurable goal, an achievable goal, a realistic goal, a tie bound goal, and then the summary. and then you can do the exact
same for goal two and for goal three. And that's why I want you to focus on. I just want three goals at this stage that you want to achieve within the next year to start off with,
that you want to miss down in here. This is going to help us be really targeted on the actions that we take over the next couple of months. We're then going to come down to our
goal hierarchy. We're going to say our 12 month vision in here and as much detail in there as you can really visualize it. Again, when you're driving, what you're wearing, any of
the non material stuff at the time you can spend with your family, being able to take time on the weekends to relax, maybe. Anything can be space that dream holiday, you want to,
but the certain of someone, anything like that, you want to food in here. And then we're going to tie down to the quarterly miles. Again, that's a specific outcome that you've
achieved. So that milestone could be,000 subscribers. It could be three paid members, something small like that. Any of these things that want to Andy these down in the milestones,
and then a deadline that you think you can achieve that in as well. If you come down to here, I then want you to think about this first month. So this month's objective could be
just getting through, all of the material I've got you, and sending out your first, maybe 400 emails. Again, we're breaking down into this month specifically for what we want to
achieve. I then want you to think about the next week. This will need to do with this MasterCars or anything else going into your life as well. What do you want this week's actions
to be? Do you want Monday to do Tuesday, Wednesday, Thursday, and Friday? That could be that Monday is that you want to go to the gym and that's just going to be your task. Tuesday
could be you just want to complete all of the modules in one, Wednesday could be that you want to complete everything inception two, Thursday could be that you want to complete
everything in section three and so on and so forth. Connection, checkpoint. So again, what we're looking at here is can you trace a clear line and you clearly identify how this
week's tasks are going to ti into this month's objectives, which are going to tie into this quarter milestones all the way up to your 12 month vision. You want to be able to see
that idea here of progression and how they will tie together. If it doesn't connect, then you' bigger goals going to do it as well. The reason I mentioned this so important is
because there was actually an incident in Croatia a couple of years ago where they started to build this breach if I just opened this up and there even me many, many years. I think
it's about 10 years decade or so, they actually realized that the bridges didn't match up because as they were building over time, there was a few miscalculations. The Rock almost
moved, there was loads of different parts. So it actually ended up looking like this. So, of course, the coals didn't align. And this is why it's really important.standing why what
you do week week, to month to month, to quarter to quarter to year to year is going to compound over time, either negatively or positively. Again, a really simp example is if you
need lots and lots ofunk food, that's not going to be good for you each week each month, each year and so on and so forth. So that's how we want to start breaking it down to get
the best output. The next one here is I wanted to do a bit of reanity testing on your goals. So I want a realistic use case in here. So, for example, getting that 300 customers, if
you could say the best case would be, you know your wildest dreams is that you get 500 customers and the worst case is that you're going to get 200 customers. The reason that I
want you to think about this is because we've always tequila scenarios in our heads to make sure that you're planning your business or expansure or maybe losing your job. We take
that into consideration as well. But why also almost promise that you will see when you start to write down the worst cases is they're not actually that big a deal For example, if
you pick your first video online, no one cares. There's so many other things that are going on in other people's world. Again, there's that old thing where, you, first, they think
you're crazy, then they'll start asking you questions and then they start asking you how to do it themselves. So there's those different steps as you go through. When you start
removing all of those limiting beliefs they can really check out our mindset Mastercl so that you can go through being in real right headspace, you're trying to do what we're going
to do. The validation question it as well. So do have the skills. If not, how are we going to get them? Do you know someone who's done something similar? If so, cool, let's reach
out to them, let's understand how, let's make sure there'll be what we'll doing. What you have working in your favour, if you' worked in insurance for 15 years, you probably know
load of people that you're able to reach out to. If not, maybe you've got 11 different accountants in your local area that you know you can be and talk to on a Monday morning and
go, what you do, what problems you have, I'm happy to build something for free just to show you what I can do. The next one is plan. Again, breaking it down into those manageable
chunks. What are we doing week I week? What's the plan? then we can also track if you're the progress you need. Make sure that you're actually checking any of the flags in case
there's any issues and that you've got to the final checkpoint tip, which you will also be able to do is to have our weekly reflections, and this is going to help us go through,
identify this week's winds, you, do's and dones, we want the reality check, what works well, what could we improve on, the progress against our goals. We've got the time and energy
order. This is really a key, because then we can look out to we spend it on learning and building, to be spending watching TV, wasting time. Again you'll that you'll probably need
to huddle away for a couple of months to work on this. You to go to the pub every week, the bar, you'll probably have to dedic quite a bit time to get this up running, but it'll be
worth it in many, many years to come. So you've got week next week for improve support systems, all in these different parts in here. And of course, you've got that time here, you
can book it with a team as much as you want as well. Now, I also meant to be with cover, OKR. And these are used by large companies like Google and LinkedIn, and there for more
advanced companies than starting off with your own business. It stands for objectives and key results. And what it means is instead of setting realistic targets, almost doing is
setting an ambitious st inspiring objective, and then defining Europe with three to five key results. So we're defining where we want to go and the key results for how we measure,
that we've got there. Again, this may sound a little bit less structure than our smart objectives, and that's because as we scale businesses, we've got multiple people that are
going to be involved with the process. We've got to align and lots of different teams. It's going to be a very dynamic environment. We want to set it up as that North Star that we
want to go after, having it redined and controlled, like we help with the objectives. We're going to cover this a lot later on in a scaling part, the masterces, but definitely keep
the smart objectives for now because that will really help you in the early days of getting this up and going and landing that first flight. So that's everything about setting your
goals. I hope you understand it and I look forward to Welcome to the Claude code went through l of htese PHASE 1: THE AI OPPORTUNITY 1.1 The AI Revolution: ChatGPT to Transformers
1.2 Billion $ Implementation Gap & Adoption Curve 1.3 Your Value Proposition & Service Models 1.4 Target Markets & Industry Deep Dive 1.5 Pricing Strategy & Demonstrating ROI 1.6
Your Complete Tech Stack & Tools 1.7 Implementation & Essential Skills 1.8 Mindset, Persistence & Winning the Long Game PHASE 2: STRATEGIC POSITIONING (Your Edge) 2.1 Finding Your
Edge 2.2 Defining Your ICP & Customer Problemse 2.4 Drafting your “one-liner pitch” 2.5 Setting Goals & Accountability Framework claude code said ⏺ Staging plan updated. Changes
made: 1. Header preamble · added a "Late addition" note marking the 3 new PDFs as additions to the original 243-file inventory. Updated total copy count from ~210 to ~213. 2. §1
mkdir block · added raw/13_OPERATING_DISCIPLINE/ with an inline alternative for raw/05_AI_EDGE_COURSE/ if you want ICP Definition routed separately. Flagged the numbering
collision: 13_NETWORK already occupies the 13_ prefix, and 05_PRODUCTION already occupies 05_ · noted that 15_OPERATING_DISCIPLINE/ is the next clean free slot if strict
chapter-number uniqueness matters. 3. §2.25 new section · explicit cp block for the 3 PDFs into 13_OPERATING_DISCIPLINE/, with the optional split-routing block for ICP Definition
into 05_AI_EDGE_COURSE/. Includes file sizes, why each one matters for SNIPED (ICP Worksheet feeds sniped-wwp-positioning and recurring ICP refinement; Goals + Reflections feed the
5-loop drift detection from BATCH_004 canon item 10), and the explicit framing that these are operating-discipline scaffolding · not canonical strategic weight. 4. §5 verification
· added verification check #9 (ls -la "$DST/13_OPERATING_DISCIPLINE/"). 5. §6 deferred queue · registered as BATCH_027 · EDGE_AND_OPERATING_DISCIPLINE. Flagged that it can be
elevated earlier if a quarterly Constraint Audit or weekly-review redesign needs the source material. Confirmed: - BATCH_005 remains photography canon. - No chunking, no master
file updates, no file moves. - All 3 PDFs verified present in SOS root at expected paths.