UK. So when you equate that to US dollars, it's about $370 per hour for a lot. Now, I mentioning it was around 30 hours, maybe just to learn how NA10 works, how to do some prompt
engineering, how to tie together, good workflow, make sure it's optimized, and much, much more. Well, about 30 hours for a lawyer is going to cost them in $11,000 of their time,
and also lost business opportunities. There's an odd thing which is there's no such thing as a free lunch, and this is what we're looking to at. What is their time worth that we're
gonna touch on this on how to do RO pricing and much, much more, but how can we save them that time and of course, cost that goes with it, so they can get their output quicker?
More eyeball, animalsable for the future. And that's why a lot of what we're gonna be doing is like the iceberg. The climb is gonna see the outcome. But what we're doing in the
background is understanding the strategy of what they need it and why they need it, we're to bug it in, what systems going to connect to we' training the individuals on how they
can use it. That's a huge one and that's something called change management, because you can plug it in once. But if everyone uses the old process, it's not going to work, and it's
going to be close as a failure. The other side is AI continuously needs to be improved, updated, refined, improved, and everything else. So that's where your support and an ongoing
basis is invaluable term. But more important than anything else is piece of mind. Again, for example, that's why many of them may fly private, because I know they can turn up,
there's no cancellations, there's no many issues, bring as much baggages they want. order of this different stuff.? Is the piece of minding for business owners that you're going to
be working with to get the output? Now, the fourth myth is that you need credentials and certifications to be opt to sell this. And I don't think so. And the reason for this is
because there's no officials or AI certification at the moment. There's no cause like being able to do the ballve or an or ACA from all the accounting size. It's all based on
online certifications at the moment. I'm sure that would change in the future. But what clients really care about is results versus creduals. Again, when I left, people wanted to
see, can he build it? Can he actually deliver what he's saying? Because he's got all the credentials that maybe sit in the background? So that's where, as you go through, you
really need to leave your ego outside of this, and you may be starting completely from scratch. Everything is going to be results versus entiddy, your credentials to d. And this is
the way we come back to what your clients care about? They care about can you solve my problem? What are the results maybe you've gotten with other implementations in the past? I
question's importantly, how much does it cost? And that's gonna be a big one for lots of the businesses, and that's why we touched on it in more detail on, how to phrase it and
come to the right cost. And that's why we got this master cost, because we're going through the next couple of weeks, really learning the tools in debt understanding how to get the
systems set up in place so that we can go through, trying to get some projects, you know, maybe free at the styles, showing some demos on YouTube or on your website, or lo or
anything like this, to build that credibility. And then once you start on boarding fines, it's really looking at, maybe we're getting some testimial, you know, how well did it go?
How can we get the alput? How can we improve it getting some feedback on your solution and much, much more. And that's where within the next three months, by doing all of these
different steps, you' going have more credibility, than probably 90% of the AI experts out there on TikTok, on social media, and Instagram, and all these different parts. And
that's why I come back to influencer versus what maybe is called a practitioner. There's loads of people out there talking about AI claiming that they're making hundreds of
thousands of dollars a month, which fair enough, if they can, and they call thets to prove it, I bet you many of them actually don't. So always look at what can you do what the
businesses actually want? Because when you're going to speak to most of them out there, most of the smaller, medium sized ones and not of them just need your help, and they need
people to go in with the expertise to solve the problem they have. So now we're going to cover what does it actually take? Well, the first thing is you're going to need 100% self
accountability. You're going to need to put this all on yourself are going through. I can't guarantee you any results. And the reason for this is because your results will be
entirely dependent on your effort and execution. And that's because discipline is very different to motivation and continuing and going through. I can't control the amount of time
you're gonna put in and the amount of eff you're gonna put in, are you gonna follow up with? Are you gonna make sure that they respons with the different leads? You're gonna keep
looking for different opportunities, reworking your opportunities, keep reworking for different solutions, pivoting if you need to? Again, we've got unimited textable coming
through and chatting with us, everything like this, and that's because it's 100% self for capability, as you go through. The other side of that as well is, I hate to say it, but
sometimes when you give a guarantee like that, you attract the wrong person who doesn't give 100% effort, who think it's just easy money, you, cash grabbing one of this sort of
stuff, which isn' reality we're with an uncle and trying to be able to sustainable businesses, build a good presence around AIation. So that's where we're going to go through the
learning phase of mandering of the tools identifying your a niche, going through getting your first kinds, building out sales material, networking, having those conversations,
delivering that for projects, actually building it again, can't unimited tech support. We'll help you build it out, we'll help you identify problems. We'll have to build it for
you, but we'll go through I'll support you through that entire journey. And then we go ongoing, improving your internal processes keep. Can you stream on your own onboard? Can you
stream payment processing? Can you share success stories? How do you land your cl sharing those winds and much, much more? No. The next problem to run through is some of these
costs that are going to be associated with this. So, what are some of the starting costs? Well, this is probably the lowest cost business to start. You're looking at probably less
than $100 a month to start off. You've got your L&M of choice, so maybe your personal chat GPT accounts, company CPT accounts. You's then either got an alteration, like any10, or
maybe one of the vine coding tools, getting lovable or bolt to go through and build, or you're looking to build. You have got some API costs on there as well, and they can there're
incredibly cheap to run because you're gonna shift from that $20 a month to that per token cost instead. And to put it into perspective on you're working on something like chap 55,
you're looking at around two million tokens, It's gonna cost around $15 with opening art. If you're looking at around $1,2 for the million input tokens and around $10 for that
alput token. So again, very different pricing, but that's how we can go through and optimize it. You can also set up platforms like Stripe for payment, which is a really good one
that's what I use myself, really trust to do the market you doing is to pay anything to use it. They're just going to take 2.9% of that transaction, plus only around 30 of that
cost as well. If you're starting off, please just look to use the free tools, CRMs proposals, and need research. Again, it's gonna be on new at the start, you can pay for those
tools, which we' touch on in a second. For a CRM, you can do something as simple as Google, to include a resources down below, so that you can through and set something up. There's
a loads of templates on notion and loads and loads of different platforms, pipe drive has free accounts that you can go through and use instead. Proposals, Again, you don't need
anything flash or fancy, start off is something like Google Drive to go through, and write proposals, PDF them, and get them ready to send out to clients. You don't need anything
for flash or fancy at the start. Lead research. So again, I' still trying to figure out niche don't go off paying for low to load expensive tools. News may be linked in to do some
research or glass door, or wherever you need to find the information specific for the niche you're going after. That could be as simple, as going around Facebook and looking at the
different Facebook groups that exist as well. Now, as you go through, there will be some more stealing costs to consider. So, loads of them on here, and you do not need to have
everything, but it's around $400 for some of this stuff. So if you want to have your own website, that's going to be around $20 per year to have the domain. So for example, at AI
and Aomation.com. That is the domain and that will cost you around $20 per year. If you want to upgrade to a CRM, again, maybe you've got more advanced one, you, p drives an extra
plugging into all that, that's likely around $20 what you want. If you want to go through and need something like panda Dos for proposals, you know, signing off, doing a bit more
automated, that's going to cost you around $35. He' research, you an Apollo,' Hunter I,' got so many different ones. They' between $49 and $80 a month. The other key thing that
many people forget about is accounting. This will save you a complete headache at the end of the year, once you start to go through, and actually finalize your accounts for the
first year, the invoices, how much money you've made, what you need to declare to the SEC, your HRC, or whatever your local government is. Now, if you've got a website, you're also
going to need to host it. That'll be around $20 a month, as well. Now, this one you don't have, it's just an ulional extra for you. Maybe you want more to new team members, you're
going to need a centralized space to communicate. I run all of mine through Slack, so that's gonna cost around $7 dollars a month per user per month. So if you justify that for
yourself, maybe use an AI automation, you, anyA 10 agents within snack, that could be a great way to start off. Now, the other side of that as well is maybe you want that
personalized email address, like you said, at AIAomation agency.com. That's what you want to email to be. That's going to cost you around $ per month per user, if you go through,
and you something like Google Starter Workspace, which is going to be more than enough for many of you at the start. If you're then looking to do some client's outreach, maybe
you're focusing through email, because you want to be able to do the volume, you're going to be looking at around $25 per year for that new domain. The reason for this is because,
as mentioned, if you have@ AI Aomation agency.com and you start sending your main email address out to lots of people, you can end up in spam causing new issues with your actual
clients, you can get blacklisted, so you actually won't send emails and more. And that's why on we're gonna show you that you can set it up. So for example, get AI automation
agency.com is slightly different, but if still shows your company sort of main domain, and it won't mean that your main account or will get blacklisted. And that's why that
separate domain is gonna cost you an extra $25 per year. Now, what you can also do with each of those sales domains you set up is have five email accounts that you're able to use
with that specific domain. They're going to cost you around $5 per month each, so it's going to cost you around $25 for all of those email accounts per domain. So again, if you're
stating this up and you're doing loads of loading loads of emails, that's where you're gonna need to keep adding those costs up. Now, each email address is gonna be between 30,000
to 50 emails per day. So you're looking to be able to send between 150 to 250 emails per domain and associated accounts. Don't worry if that sounds overly complex. We're gonna
touch on that much more later on. You're also gonna need the email platform to send it out as well, like instantly AI, and that's gonna start off or around $30 per month. Now,
these three costs, the domain the emails, and the outreach platform, that's going to be great for doing the volume. But if you want a more personalized engagement, for example,
using LinkedIn, that's gonna use platforms like Dri 5, which are normally around 50 to $80 a month, but it's going to mean that you can't send out as many requests or messages
compared to using emails. So that's why it comes back to why you were gonna touch on meeting a lot later on, because we need to identify what's really good for what's specific use
case. Now, if you want to go through and maybe make it nice and easy, if your customers to book appointments with you as well, that's why there's platforms like calendar out there
that are around $12 per use at per month to help making scheduling, nice and easily. Now, that can sound like a lot. There's a lot there, lots of different parts and lots of
different add ons, and maybe you need to consider. But there's a different way to do it. We can also look at another tool that's very populated in the market, but it's called high
level, but you don't have to use this, again, at the start, I recommend you just using as this as possible, paying as as possible, because, trust me, in that first year, it's going
be a real roader coaster try and get this all up running, working, changing, selling, understanding it, and more. But what high level does is enable us to consolidate a lot of
these costs under one subscription for $97 a month, and that's where you can see all of the different parts. It includes. So, you can definitely start to look at platforms like go
high level, once you're starting to scale, and really taking this more seriously, beyond maybe a side hustle. So it brings our costs down slightly. We're still going to need a few
usual ones on there. Again, the accounting platform isn' uncovered, the actual lead list, you know, the Apollos, the hunters, they all covered by it. Neither those messaging
services like Slack, your email address is uncovered by it, and a few others. So that's why you is really good at having a lot of the, you know, base workloads in there for
reaching out to lots and lots of different people, but it's not for everyone. So that's why I mention around doing some research into it, finding out if it's really good for you. I
think it's a great platform. I used it as well as many other people in the space. So just check it out and see if you think you're gonna get the most out of it. But please, as
mentioned, keep your costs as low at the start, especially for the first couple of weeks, whilst it goes through, and you get everything set up Again, if you got any questions, if
you want to talk it through, you can book all of the calls one to one with me and the team to go through and answer, any questions that you have. Now, the other part, that helps
build credibility that we touched on earlier on, is all around Showcasing your results. Now, there's a couple of different ways you can do this, and we're gonna cover this later on
in the Masterclass, around the different options, my set up, and much, much more. Now, there's a free option called O a studio that you can include on your computer, download it,
record videos, store those, send you all potential p Google Drive link On you've uploaded, so they can watch it. The other alternative that's very popular, is a platform called
loom, and this is going to enable you to record your screen, story it online, around $19 a month, but it's a very, very good option. If you're going to be doing lots and lots of
demos. Some of you may have a professional grade microphone and that's absolutely okay. We can use platforms like Adobe podcasts, which is around $10 a month or included in Adobe's
Creative cloud. If you've got that, to really make the audio sounds as good as possible. Even though I got special microphone here, I still put my audio through just to tidy it up,
and that's why you're listening to now. So I use all of these, and that's why I recommend it. is some of these costs that are going to be inssociated with this. So, what are some
of the starter costs? Well, this is probably the lowest cost business to start. You're looking at probably less than $100 a month to start.. So we've covered so much so far. What
are some of the skills you're gonna need to develop, though? Again, you don't need all of these from day one. There's just some key. You should keep in mind,. Stop practicing.
Again, now 1% better every single day. Well, I' got 10 here, and my knowing means is this exhausting. But I think the most important skill on here, without a doubt in my opinion,
is critical thinking. It needs to make sure that you're reassessing the outputs, what people are saying, you're engaging your brain, you're analyzing how this situation looks for
problems, the viible people, you're able to do some real thinking around everything in the space. You don't want to switch your brain off, and everything over to AI or get
everything I'm saying. Make sure you do your own research, I'll share the data from the census of 202 That's only for America. If you find it from HRC in the UK or the different
platforms in Europe, South America, and China, Russ or whatever else, make sure you're always looking in your specific location, Also, please don't take what I say as gospel.
Again, challengeing me, I've always listening to new ideas. I've always opened for that anymore, but also, don't take what everyone else says online, as D. And lots of people are
online around what they earn works, what doesn't work, so please take everything with what we ainch is coming. I say is making sure that you're taking it with a grain. We're taking
bits of it here and there, we're doing our diligence, checking, understanding, and more. The next one is problem solving, and this is key, because we've discussed lots of not so
far. It's been need to make sure that we understand what business is problems are, how we can solve them, what tools solve, what problem, how we can actually give some value back
to the customer and more. If you can solve a problem, you'll become a very rich man, or lady, because you'll be able to go through and help businesses out. The next one is
communication. Now, this is really key. You don't need to be a world class speaker from day one, what you do need is to be able to understand and explain what you're building, what
you're sell, almost to a 10 year old. That's what you need to be able to do. So, again, if you're not sure how to do that, use AI. Put your, you, turn on the voice, chat to chat to
your claw and say, "Th is what I'm doing. This is how I'm sell it. This is the benefit of a business. This is how much I'm going to cost, and get it to give you the results. Don't
think that you need to have everything for yourself from day one. Get it to embody certain personas, maybe like Alex Hermosia in the way that he speaks. Get AI to assume that
persona and play it back to you. For how a 10 year old would understand it, because it's much easier to increase the complexity in your description with someone who's brand new to
AI versus overcomplicated, and then try and backtrack to make sure they understand what you're selling. Again, voice AI. They don't to know how yellowLM works, what you're able to
do with it, how you connect it, to your ownappe retail, all do these different things, starts off simple. This AI agent, or this AI employee, is able to answer the phone for you 24
and book appointments. That's very easy to understand, versus this AI agent powered by Vapian and a turn is able to connect to Google Drive or.com to be able to book appointment
for you, 24365 with email notifications as well. Can you see the difference between the two? What is much easier to understand Hand grasp straightway versus the complex and
technical answer instead. You can always, as mentioned, once you've done that simple explanation of this is a voice agent, the book's appointments 247, they may turn around and
say, brilliant. How does that work? Well, tell me more, the key part is they've understood the outcome that they're getting at the start. The next one is cult Engineering. Some say
this is dead, some say this is more than ever. What I want you to understand from this, though, is the importance of being able to communicate with AI in the clearest way possible,
or this will also help you do is understand how the AIs are producing their results, because then you can use more of a scientific method to get to the outputs more consistently
every single time. We've got an entire masterclass in the community, all around from to engineering. There's included no extra costs, so please check that out to get the best
outputs possible. The next one is one platform. Now, this is going to be incredibly hard for salt, and I understand that, because there's loots and lootes, shiny objects and brand
new platforms being released every single day. What you want to do is be aware of them, but become of real expert in one tool first. So, for example, we've got the NA10 Masterclass
in the community. If you want to know how to build the best NA10 Aomation workflows, start there and go one by one and become a real expert in any10 and automation. Then expand to
a skill set as you go through and learn new things. Don't try and learn everything in one go because there's so many different things. Break it down to manageable steps, think big,
start small, and just iterate through. The next one is resilience. And this is really important, because you're going to get lots of maybe negative comments around AI because of
the fear that people are losing their jobs, they' schoppers, they call it coming out of AI for the quality of the images or the videos, Again, you need to be able to push past
that, keep putting your foot forward one step at time. It's not going to be easy, but you're gonna get there in the end. Again, we're going to cover that a little bit, one more of
a philosophical stand before we move on to the next module. The other side is risk and ethics. You need to understand what your boundaries are, what you're willing to do and not
do. For example, there are some people that are happy to work in the defense base with AI and some that arms. You need to understand some of the rules and regulations that sit
around AI as well. For example, in Europe, there's the EUAI, so you need to understand that if you're operating there, versus what's happening maybe in America, or you've got
Australia, can lose of different ones. You've got to make sure that you understand them. So you're not building an implementing solutions that go against any ethics or rules or
laws or anything like that as well. Next up is system thinking. You need to be able to understand how different processes tied together for the specific solution you're building.
So you need to make sure that if it's going to have a handoff to a person, what is that person going to be doing, how they like to receive it, when they're going to be to certain
threshold. So for example, if you're doing something for finance, maybe if there's an invoice over $50,000, it needs to be sent for a human for approval. So it's starting to break
it down and really think end to end of that process, where can we use AI? can we use it for? Where are we gonna need a human involved? Where we gonna need a handoff, and much more?
One of the other signs that many people forget, is continuous improvement. You always need to be learning. You need to make sure that you put your ego at the door, the minute you
start this process because you need to accept that you don't know what you don't know, and you're never gonna be expert in AI, to be honest, because there's always going to be new
involvements. There's always going to be new tools, you need to also make sure that if you're building anything for clients, maybe you've got that monthly retainer so you can go
back, show them how it works and improve it and change it and update it and so on, and so forth. And also, but not is. Now, this is something that, I struggle with and be learning
constantly around it, but it is how you're actually able to sell to people and businesses. This is an entire skill in itself, and it's going to take years and years and years
become a master salesesperson. So definitely, if you find someone who's good at it, work with them as much as possible, as long as you can trust them as well. One thing that's
really great for sales is definitely try and put that trust up front again, maybe you can turn the tool on for a month and then you can go through and try it before you start
charging them. Or you can start to shoot the demos. You can meet them once one, you can explain how it works. There's load of different things to help build it. But sales a really
key skill. You're going to need to start to develop as well. now, I want to cav, but nobody really talks about. And that's because there's you a lot of things that you'll go to
face. You're going to face a lot of objection. Most outreach is going to be ignored. hoping for those response, but then always guaranteed. You'll also find that you may have an
impulse syndrome. And that's who am I to charge for this? You don't throw me worthy for what you're doing. That's okay, it happens to all of us. There's a great book called Psycho
Cybernetics, which I include the link down, so that you can find it. There's loads of talks on like this., that's why I like some data driven and everything we do. Because if we
can say that your employees's time is50 an hour, but we can save you 100 hours, then you can work out a costs for them nice and easily. You need to detach you from the business and
the solution, because they're completely different. What you are willing to pay is different to what someone else is willing to pay. They said the headache that it may solve for
that specific business. The other side is technical frustration. Things are not going to work, first time, every time. They need to be okay with that. That's why we mentioned
around critical thinking and problem solving earlier on, because you need to make sure that you could work past that. The other thing that you'll like it in a face right at the
start is what's called Feast and famine cycos. You'll probably have no signs for a week, then you'll have 10 clines to turn up, or at one time, then you have nothing to get for
three weeks, then you have another 30 kind of the turn up I want to work with you, so that's why you get these cycles throughout the business year. So what you'll find is there
will be, real times that you work, all the hours of the day, every single day, every single minute, which I still go through every single year, and then you'll find times in the
summer when everyone's on holiday, but maybe you can take extra hour back here or there to enjoy some time outside or to rework youring or anything like this, to really find the
best way to make it more consistent. That's also why you should look at having that monthly service challenge with maybe your business, so that you can get that consistent,
repeatable income in the future as well. The last, but not least, is the comparison trap. Please, please, please, realize that social media isn't a reality if you haven't already.
Take everything you there with a pinch of salt, always verify cross reference, Again, if you can't ignore the news as much as possible or get trust the news sources, then
definitely do that versus just consuming everything that comes through the door because it's very different in the world today, even with the AI deep and everything out there, for
what do I want to do. So the question is, are you ready? We've covered a lot over the last couple of slides there, but really want to do is sit down and ask yourself these
questions. Can you handle hearing no, 20 times to get that one, yes? Are you okay with figuring things out when you get stuck? Again, you can come to ask you've got the text, we'll
go through and help you build it, help you problem solve, and more. The other side is motivated. Now, I always prefer discipline, over motivation, but what you need to make sure is
that you're able to continue regardless without seeing immediate results. Again, you want to be in this with a non versus trying to do a real quick w money, which isn't reality.
You need to think that it's going to take a good couple of months to get some decent money coming through. Am I going to look stupid wh learning That's another big one? Like I
said, ego at the door, forget everything that you know, assume you know nothing, and that's the start to build up from. And then finally, can you stick with this for three to six
months? In reality, that's not a huge amount of time, but you need to be able to make sure that as we mentioned earlier, you can keep sticking with it, keep hunting yourself, you
writing a letter to yourself, which will do later. How you going to yourself in three months in six months, because you need to be able to keep going at it again and again, and
again, and again, because that last month may just be the one. And to you I mean there's a bit of a successful, you know, we've got action, steel and timing. All of these are going
to take a part of your success. Sometimes I've had business deals just because I was in the right place at the right time. Sometimes because I did it hours hours and hours every
day, the action led to that opportunity coming through. sometimes you just got a really good skill, you can demonstrate, maybe you've got lots of expertise in a specific area or
specific niche, you'll be able to go through and find that success. And success is all about action. consistency over skill is key. And to show you what I mean by this is Steven
Spielberg was rejected three times by Southern California University before he became a director. It took Tim's 25 times before a publisher would actually accept his book, which is
now gone on to sell millions and millions of copies. If we skips, the founder of Pandora, the jewelrylace brand, approached 300 investors before he got funding. Richard Branson,
the UK entrepreneur for Virgin Atlantic, and all these different groups, launched hundreds of companies before he had the wonder, R. KFC was turned down 1,09 times for his recipe.
Sylvester Stedi was rejected 1500 times when he was trying to sell his script, ". James Dyson, the Hoover person, 5,16 prototypes before he had the one, the cracked, and the most
famous one is Thomas, because he made more on the other, but regardless, 10,000 times, he tried to create a light bulb before that 10,000 and1st was a success. So's the question
you need to ask yourself, is how many times you willing to try before you hit that jackpot? And there's an odd saying from a Chinese philosopher Confucius, which I think is
something that still brings true today, which is those who think they can and those who think they can't, are usually right. So I want you to keep that in mind, because if you give
it 110%, you keep going through, keep tripping away every single day, you will get a breakthrough at some point. Okay, that's why I find it really deceptive when some people give
guarantees, because it could be within one week, it could be in three weeks, it could be in six, 9, 12, whatever it may be, what you really know, you keep giving it 110, you keep
putting it forward, you keep putting the work every single day, you will find that success at some point. So I hope' inspire you. I hope you're excited to go through and learn how
to be able a very own AI and alternation company and we've got all of the different pathways as well, so definitely choose one of your most excited for, and I look forward to
seeing you in the next video. Killing. Influcer marketing., type in your website. Today. We officially kill. Influencer marketing. Fast Lane.yp in your website, and the influcer
you want to make. It's that simple. In seconds, you have your real gift. Not the AI slop when you get everywhere else. Plus, you actually Tracking calories is literally so hard.
Now, let's take a step. further and make some content in our tinder for marketing. On, a trending piece of content. On the right, content already made with your influencer, drawn
from that exact trending video. As you can see, we copy why that video went viral, then we clone it with your products contacts. If you swipe it right, the video gets posted
straight to TikTok, Instagram, and YouTube. Fastlane only makes content and trending formats, just like this slidesh. Plus, they're an easy way to promote your product. Yes, it's
that easy. Welcome to the world Millie Lips. But why stop it Millie? Today. we officially... So, we've covered so much so far. What are some of the skills you're gonna need to
develop, though? Again, you don't need all of these from day one. There's just some key ones that you should keep in mind, start practice. and understand. But now I want to cover
what nobody really talks about. And that's because there's In this way we're going to be talking about? Fine. what we're gonna be talking about, finding your edge. Now, this is
gonna be a shorter video compared to some of the other ones as we walk through the different sections of the masterclass, because it's all about spending the time with yourself and
really reflecting on what's you're here to date so far and where you want to go in the future. But the first thing I want to touch on is the backwards approach, the most people are
taking at the maintance. What they're doing is they're looking on social media, YouTube, TikTok, Instagram, all of these different places, or they're picking a market first, and
then they're trying to compete. This is causing a lot of headaches because they're looking at Sass'ault right now, I heard there's money in maybe a specific sector, or everyone
needs marketing services if it's plastered all over the internse. And what this means is we causing a problem where we're starting from scratch in a crowded space with no real
advantage. What's the different of yourself compared to maybe some of the other people already out there? No, AI is still very brand new for a lot of companies out there, so you
can definitely take advantage at the moment. So what we want to do instead is start with what you actually have. So isn't what you want to have? But it is what you already have
that maybe others don't. So that can be a myriad of things. We can be direct to access to certain decision makers, that could be, if you know lots of law firs into your local area,
it could be that you've got some of family friends, it could be your own friends or other business owners, or anything else. Maybe you spend many, many years within a specific
industry or service, so you've got extensive knowledge on specific problems. Maybe you're just really interested in different services platforms, you really detged into something
that's maybe not your day to day job, and you spotted a consistent problem to do with that as well. Maybe you've got some existing relationships within a particular industry, just
because you work within real estate, maybe doesn't mean you know lots of builders or contractors, you know anything like that that you could also leverage within your network as
well. We're all about trying to work smarter, but we are going to keeping to work hard as well. One of the great ones as well is if you've actually control of a business, that can
be your own one, maybe you changing improvement in incorporating AI, or actually, again, your family friends that you can get involved with, maybe you an investor in some, you can
start to go through and see how AI will be incorporated into that. The years of experience will be putting you ahead of 99% of people because that would take them years to
replicate to get to the exact same point that you are today. So experience is definitely great. What's going to keep you going, though, is definitely having a genuine interest that
keeps you engaged and won't make you want, because you're going to be working 247 365, definitely for the first year. Again, this is a marathon, not to spri, so we need to make
sure that we' genuinely interested in what we're doing day to day, versus seeing this in more of a quick money grab, because it's definitely not that if you want to be able to
sustain business. You can scale it up quickly, but again that ties into getting guards access to decision makers, sporting really good gaps in the market, great branding, working
hard, which are the forming up we're going to touch on later on. The next one is willingness to outwork the competition. You've got to be able to go that extra mark compared to
maybe someone else, especially at the start to pick your foot, and make a mark in the market step. and again, we' also wanted to make sure that we're looking at market that's able
to sustain your ambition, again, we're going to talk about pivoting and shifting your later on in the master classes, but that's going to help us really identify actually going
after a really good target market in the first place. But how do we take these advantages forwards? Well, these are the key three pillars that I wanting to remember, passion, hard
work, and the right market, because they're gonna enable you to generate a real concrete foundation for the future. The advantages that we just discussed, you can stack them over
time, the willing to our work people, getting the expertise and the experience, meeting decision makers and more, they will stack over time. Don't feel like you to have everything
done by day one. The hard work is really key. This is a marath, not ari. We're going to be doing this over weeks and months. We're not talking about a million dollars, million
pounds within the first week. It definitely can happen, but it's more of the exception versus the rule and that right market. We're gonna be touching on that much more lead to
wrong in the Master classes, all around how to spots your specific market, the target market details, might we just discussed your experiences will, taking that consideration, the
next modules all around the find your customer persona, so we can really understand who we targeting. And I want you to remember this story from Marcus Erregulus. Look, within,
within, is the foundation of good and it will ever bubble up, if thou wilt ever dig. So what we need to be doing here is almost holding a mirror up to ourselves. This is not an
intactory it to business or automation AI, but it's aoric approach. They'll want to incorporate. Again, I meant to write back at the start, 100% self accountability. We want to be
making sure they're looking within ourselves, being honest our sales, what we do enjoy, to enjoy, and where we think there's opportunity. And to help you with that, we got this
opport include. We need to copy it to your Google Drive, but then we're going to go through step by step. We're going to see what you already have access to, maybe you know some
business owners, coworkers, you can actually fill in some information around them in here. We can add more and more wise we need. We've also got other experience in here. Maybe
