you've got some money in people to past, maybe the time investments of the start. We'll get you into closed door networking groups and much more. Maybe you'll need a physical space
on location, like a retail park that has lots of businesses already in there that you could go and chat to over lunch. If you come down to, now we'll get into Section two, all
around what you actually know. So you want to be as honest with yourself as possible. No one else is going to see this, you're using this for yourself, to read a reflect to where
you are and how we're going to bridge that gap to where you want to go. So, reach yourself. You want to fit out around three or four experiences. So experience one, what is your
role in? What industry was it in? How big was the company? How long were you there? What did you actually do day today? What was did you solve? What were you really good at? How
did you the industry all the space? Again, we want to try to do that for three or four different roles. As you go through you'll start to see similarities between them and that's
go. That's what we're trying to bring out. So now we can come down to section three. This is who you know. And you'd be surprised how many people actually come through from a
referral program when you start off. A lot of the AI Aation businesses start off with building that trust with and a family friends, colleagues, someone that they have a lead with
to get to their first clients. After that, then they start doing a lot better cold outreach because they really delivered one. They got some very confident experience and his
starts to go from there. So think about people you actually you actually have a relationship with, not just someone you met at a conference five years ago on LinkedIn. All we want
to do down here is we want to start adding them in by industry. We can also look at here as well is we're going to be doing their potential roles as a, and you may end up writing
people's names a couple of times or duplicating them a couple of times, copy and paste, but that's because it means we're really starting to identify who we know, what they could
do, what their roles are in companies, how well we actually know them, do we have any gaps, who can we trust? Because don't forget we can use these people, both those actual
clients. But we could also use them as sounding boards, i testing ideas against if we have problems in the If we come down here, we're then going to start looking at who can send a
new business?" So for example, if you start pring up with an accountant, that accountant's not going to be delivering AI oration solutions. You'd be able to deliver work for the
clients, and then you start to meet and engage other businesses, you can then refer to work to them. Again, that can be a relationship that you build with local other businesses,
you can reach out to other people that live in your friends or family group or old colleagues or anyone else that you know will be able to send maybe some business your way. Then
we want to look at the advisors. So who do you actually trust? What are they good at and how well do you know them? We want to be making sure they're taking the sound advice from
people that we want to be like or trust or know that they have the best interests of us at heart. But again, 100% self accountability and everything we do from here on out this
journey is yours and yours. We can get help from friends and family and loved ones, but it's still going to be your decisions at the end of the day. technical people. So maybe
you've got someone to spend, you know, 10 years in the IT industry that you've lost lots and lots of technical questions to. That's going to be a great person to listen down here,
but it doesn't just have to be AI and automation. Maybe you knows someone like we mentioned who's a really good lawyer. That's going to be a specific person with a specific
technical expertise, that's going to help us sew to clients. Maybe we need that for the actual output. Maybe you don't specialize in platforms like Microsoft power automate, or UIP
will be imp prim, orate anywhere any of these platforms, but if you know someone that does, you can trade opportunities back and forth, because we're going to touch on it later on,
you can't be an expert in everything. We're going to want to specialize at the start and really nail down exactly who we want to work with and why. Section 4 is going to be all
about what you're actually good at. So we're going to be looking through a couple of different parts. What are you, again, 100% honest with yourself? Do you know how to manage
products? Do you know how to understand and manipulate and analy data? How are you implementing your systems, making processes better, figuring out what customers actually want?
You don't have to be and I'm expecting you to do 10 out to 10 on all of these, but what we're looking at is where there are gaps in our armor. We're looking at how can we identify
what's potentially missing, we need to do, maybe some trading, some coaching. We've got lots of materials in the master classes within the community, as well as there's of millions
of YouTube videos out there, there will help us progress and develop those skills. The industry knowledge, are you going to be working in a specific industry? For example, we've
got a couple listed out here. There's many more and you can add them in there if you want to, but maybe you find that you've got a five in tech, you've got a tend in healthcare, a
two in banking and a three in retail and online stores. Well then you can easily see, if you've got a 10 in healthcare, you don' want to go after that. It's probably a top
opportunity, tied in with some of the people that you know. So it may sound like we're seeing stuff that you already know, that's part of what you need. Because like we saw with
that crote, but first looking within, before we start to do, the work ourselves. Then I want us to come down and list out what you're generally interested in, because why this is
really good is you're going to explain what you care about, why you care about it so much, why you spend so much time on this, because what you'll actually start to see is there be
some opportunities for you to connect with people in specific niches. Again, the release calm social settings. I've been to you, 24 hours in France and you'll meet to some of the
people you can just bump into and have a chat. And when you've got the same interest as other people, you can connect the conversation flows, but also tying back to the advantages,
we want to be having this as a marathon ofs and this is going to sustain us. We'll be interested in what we really, truly enjoying to wake up with and do Dean and day up? The next
farm is real advancous. Where do you really have the advantage over other people based on what you've done to date? So, like we discussed a bit earlier on, do you own your control
of business? Do you have deep expertise or a good network in a specific industry? Do you have a really strong interest? You've got so many other ones that we saw back here, that
you'd be able to use as an advantage to get ahead. Again, these are interesting examples, you don't have to use these word for words, you can go through and add another one in
there. If you out, you've got another advantage, we haven't listed in here. So now we're gonna come down to section six. And this is gonna be a reality check. So what you've done
is you probably spend 45 minutes an hour going through all of the points up front. What we're looking at here is, can we really identify a specific problem that people have? based
on what we know, can we go through and solve it? Do we know who maybe we would pay for that? Again, that can be names, that can be, you know, local businesses that maybe you would
approach who would be the right person to reach out to. If this is maybe be a growing market and more. You don't need to worry about having this completely in here, because we're
gonna go through that in the next modelules around defining your ICP, ideal customer profile, as well as going through the one line of pitches and much much more. We're going to
your exact offering for week two owards. Next, I want you to come down here, because what we need to do is have a few dos and dos. What'll we don't want to do is try and convince
ourselves of advantages we don't really have. We don't want to just pick something because it' trendy, or go after markets where you know nobody actually exists. We don't want to
also focus on our advantages or ignore where people are actually spending money. A good example of this is there' so much money being spent on back office activities, i.e. HR
finance, customer support for many, many businesses, and you can simple work that can go for a couple of for AIation. If we come down, good signs that' on the right track. We've
been able to identify from specific example people who would pay for some solutions, you, you a rough problem the data you have, you trust some people's opinions. You've got people
coming to you about advice, because you're interested, you enthiastic, and you can go and chat to the decision, make a direct thing. So coming down here, you pick aiche right down?
I'm going to be truly honest with you. This is going to be a start to idea, because what we want to do in him is really think of maybe a market, you, a rough problem that we're
going after, versus having it completely nailed down which we're going to do it later on. Why want you to do it in him? is think of the niche as in, I spend many, many years in
this industry to solve this problem. Think of it that way when you write this down, or when you're looking at niche, maybe you've got some great experience with a specific
technology, we can start off without going too specific into what we' able to do. You, if you really to a10 orap retail relevance or any of the image generators, we can use that as
a real advantage for later on. And then we're going to come down, because what we want to look at are some of the next steps. Where do you have those weaknesses, how can we work on
them over the next month, or three months? Where do we need to deep dive into to really strengthen our advantages? Do we need to do some industry research, some market research, do
we need to speak to a few more people to really understand if there's gap do we need to establish some more interest in the automation in aospace and much, much more. And there's
nothing wrong with not having a clear yet. We has so many people that talk about from day one who' to know exactly what ones sell. That's not true. But what we're looking at here
is that we're building our foundations, layer modular module a week, until we're ready to press go and actually start launching our AI and automation Service solution SAS
consultants, Advisors, coaches, training, your opportunities. We're gonna get there in the end. Again, Marathon, lots of spread. Let's take it one step together, and if you're not
sure about anything that we've just covered, reach out to myself and the team, all your get it sorted for you. And just remember, to me, I always see passion and hard work, pin
overcome everything. You're gonna outwork, outiver,.ots and lots of other people there. Out there, they may have some more experience than you already. So passion and hard work,
that's what real foundation of everything. So let's jump into the next modules or around defining a customer of persona. In this module, we're going to be walking through, defining
your very own ICP and customer problems in the right way. So the first question you probably call for me is what does ICP be, or want to walk up through three parts first before we
get to that? So the first part is we need to ask ourselves two key questions. Who are we specifically going to be selling to and then what problem are we going to be solving for
them? These are going to be the backbone, two key questions that we need to keep in mind throughout this entire process? Because this means we're not going to be trying to sell
everything to everyone at the start. This exercise helps us really define who we're looking to sell to, and the problem we're trying to sell for them. So what does ICP stand for?
Well, it's ideal, customer profile. And what this means is we are going to define a specific problem that you are able to solve, that you can afford your specific solution, you're
actually able to reach them, and we're going to touch on different ways to do that later on. They are going to actually get value out of the solution you implement for them, or the
different ways of working, whether it's SAS, and actual implemented platform or anything else. But also the other thing that's really key to keep in mind is that you really
actually want to work with these tiger customers. And that's why most people are getting ICP wrong, because they haven't actually gone through and really defined what good looks
like for them. Most of the time, people's messaging is actually too broad. So what do I mean by that? Well, for example, saying that you focus on small businesses that need
automation or commerce companies or professional services firms are too broad to target effectively. Because, for example, within each of those different categories, there's going
to be different sub-segments or subindustries. For example, within e- commer, you're looking at clothing, or are you looking at some of skincare? Are you looking at other
platforms? Are you shopperify specific, you other ones out there? So there's loads and loads of different sub- elements within each of these. The reason that this is important is
because you can't afford to reach everyone, and the reason for this is because you're messaging won't actually resonate with anyone, because you're being too broad to actually
capture any attention. On that same train of thought, the second most com problem is that people are too vague. So, business owners are overwhelmed, is the problem statement. That
could be literally any business area. It doesn't really torture a specific business category, your company type, boo you're trying to target. Compies that want to scale Again, is
it a specific number? Are they looking to scale in a specific department? You know, customer service, all of these different elements. Teams that need to be more efficient. Again,
which team which department, what industry? We need to make sure that we're being a lot more specific with this? And that's because if we say everyone, that can be really
overwhelming to you, but also, everyone feels overwhelmed or everyone wants to scale, and they're not really specific problem, you can build a solution for. And that leads us on to
a third most common problem, which is that many people don't actually target a specific problem as well. So companies working with 50, with 10 to 50 employees. That's not a
problem. That's a company size, which is better than what we have before, but it's still not a problem. or business is making 500K to 2 million. It's not a business problem. It's
more of a location in size. It doesn't really tell you more problems they're having for again located in the US. There's something like 39 million Google Lance profiles individuals
that you can talk about within the US alone. So how nurse do you really down for that specific one? And that leads us on how they actually build out an ICP. And that's because your
ICP isn't who they are, but actually, is about what problems they have and whether or not you can reach them and how you solve it. So a proper ICP has four components. The first
one is what we call for graphics, but this sounds quite technical, but it's actually quite simple. And what we're doing with this specific element, it would be really trying to
define that specific company persona we're going after. So, what specific type of company is it? Are they in a specific industry or vertical do we need to target? And it is there a
specific subiche within that industry? We want to really rev on. So, for example, what specific type of company, we could say that it's a Northm and that's the sort of industry
vertical that they're all in. And then within that, we only want to work with the only specializing divorce lawyers to actually go through and complete that process. So, for
example, in independent insurance agency with three to eight license agents, so that's the company science, with one to five million in annual revenue, managing about $200 to 500
active policies operating in local offices in suburban markets with a mix of in-person and framebased client service. Can you see how that's are not more specific for what we' be
going after versus insurance agents within Arkansas or anything like this, which is a lot more higher level? The next armc is a specific scenario. So what do we mean by this? Well,
more conditions make them need the solution that you're offering now versus later. We're then also going to look at, is this an ongoing issue, a seasonal issue, or events
triggered? What I mean by event triggered is it's happening in a specificuations or scenarios? So for example, if I release a load of tickets to go to an event, that event is one
time to come to an event, maybe an inperson meet up, that's going to be, can you see have us a one to five million in annual that is a law firm, and that's the sort of industryvert
that they're all in. And then within that, we only want to work with the only specialized in divorce lawyers to actually go through and complete that process. So, for example, an
independent insurance agency with three to eight license agents, so that's the company science, with one to 5 million in annual revenue, managing about $200 to 500 active policies
operating in local offices in suburban markets with a mix of in-person and framebased client service. Can you see how that's are not more specific for what we be going after,
versus insurance agents within Arkansas or anything like this, which is a lot, but more higher level. The next arm is a specific scenario. So what do you mean by this? Well, more
conditions make them need the solution that you're offering now versus later? We're then also going toate, is this an ongoing issue, a seasonal issue, or event triggered? What I
mean by event triggered is it's happening in a specific situations, or scenarios? So, for example, if I release a load of tickets to go to an event, that event is one time to come
to an event, maybe an in person meet up, that's going to be one event and that's going to course the problem. And then also, are there any repeat issues that have been identified
within the business, causing this pain problem? We also want to take into consideration those painpots. So what is not working in their current operations? What constraints are
they currently hising? And what is causing the stress or inefficiency in the first place? These are some great questions to keep in the back of your mind when you're starting to
speak to clients as well, to pull out some insights on how the business is carrying your brainating, as well as any potential solutions that you can implement as well. So, for
example, the way we could phrase this is experiencing reoccurring volume spikes, so that is what's causing this, that could be seasonal or cyclical, or growth driven. Then we're
saying the specific problem is where manual renewal process breaks down. That's either because they're constantly trading new hives who struggle with the insurance specific
workloads, or it's taking up a lot of time for the senior of staff. that could be the owner of the business, managing directors, all of these different ones, causing them to work
on this process for multiple hours, every single week, during the peak periods. And again, if it's not a critical value as part of the business, that's where we want to go through
and see how AI and autation could take over, this specific problem. And there we come to the specific, expensive problem. So they need to be more productive, is not a problem. So
we come to the specific expensive problem. So they need to be more productive, is not a problem statement. Policy renewal, management, and cl communication is. So you can see how
we're breaking it down. almost like an onion where we're going through and starting off with the information about the company, i.e. three to eight agents, you know a couple of
million in revenue, within coming down again and saying it's seasonal policy ren management. The issue within seasonal spikes. And now we're saying that we know that specific
problem that they have is policy renewal management and client communication. The reason inclin communication is in there as well is because of course, if they're spending time on
the tedious manual filling out of forms, they're not speaking to existing clients or identifying new clients as well. So that's how we can go through it and start to define that
specific problem. So what is that task or problem? They're experiencing. Who on their team is doing the work and how often is this problem happening? So an example would be
spending 20 to 25 hours per week or manual policy, renewal management. It's costing them between $6,000 to $9,000 a month because of labor and lost opportunities, inconsistent
followout, and they've tried virtually assistance, but they have some quality issues and some CRM automation, but it was too complex for them to implement, preventing and causing
burnouts. So now we can go through the first three, and the last key part is how are we going to reach them? Sorry, how many people do you know, fitting into this ICP and do you
know them personally? Can you get introduced to mutual connections or actually, can you reach out to them without experiencing gatekeepers? Any example of this is you being up to
reach out to a CEO directly, first as you having to reach out to their assistant, to them in two, sometime with a CEO. Now, how do you define that? Well, I worked an insurance
agency for four years and personally know 15 agency owners. So you know you're able to have the industry experience and you know you've got the direct details for that specific
insurance company industry. They're also members, are the partner club, or the state insurance Agencies Association, which has monthly events, so you know you can go through to
them, actually, have a chat with them there. We also know that there's a tighteck community, so if we get one good job in there's gonna be lots of strong referrals, we know the
decision maker is that owner and we're able to reach to them directly through our network. And we've made it easy for you. We've got the entire template that's going to break this
down for you, you, you know, and what you can access. We're going to find it as a Google driving download to be able to access the document directly. When you click on it, you
should look something like this, we'll make sure to go through and constantly updated, but what you'll find in here is over the different details to really define everything we've
just run through. Make sure to copy this to your drive, to be able to go through and make the edits. It's going to also be really important. So for example, you'veed the find Your
Edge assessment from on to make sure you really know not to about yourself, where you' enjoy what you want to target, for later on. This isn't set in stone though. So if you want
to go through it and change it in the future, you absolutely can. And from a week two onwards where you really deep dive into the pas and pathways, you can do that too. So first
up, the firm parag graphics. Again, we want to be specific, not small business or SAS companies. Make sure you're including here for the specific industry that they work in, i.e.
law firms, then the subiche as well, ie. divorce lawyers. So able to be really specific in terms. Also pick the size as well. For many of you starting off, this size in here is
likely to be up to around 15,000 to 100 employees maximum. As you scared and grow, you'll be to increase that number, but when you're starting off, they'll have again 10 to 20
employees when lots of businesses, you start working with. You can also add in the annualvenue range in here. There's a couple of different ways of doing this. You can ask aimate
through AI. You can find any listings about a company as well, the SET sort of stuff or any of that, you can find information about a company and you can also go through these
platforms like LinkedIn to do that as well. We can do transaction volume per month. So again, how many transactions they're doing, the number of customers or clients, you can do
some estimation on that, number of locations in any other relevant metric as well. We can identify if they're too big, too small, or just right. We're going to go through and list
out at least five examples in here of what that company's name is, how they operate, how they make money, and then any key contacts, you know you can reach out to. This next
section here, you don't have to include, but that's just is the geography or geographic location matters. Again, that would be more specific if you're working in the specific, nic,
for example, if it's a company that does in one specific location and you only want to focus on that, then apply it in. You don't want to come down and make sure that you add in 10
companies that're really fit that therographic checkpoint. And this is different to the one above, because in here we're identing a different business model structures that we can
refer back to you in the future, but this is going to be the specific ones that we actually want to reach out to. The second se is we're going to go into the specific parts of
their problem.'re going to be describing their broken processes, how often is occurring and the one occurring, if it's being impacted by staff or children? If there's any
compliance or regulatory requirements as well? If it'sed to any seasonal pressures, for example, Black Friday, that's a really good one for clean it here. If there's anything to do
with the ownership or leadership constraints, and if there's anything else at the enderior, the name is trigering that process. We also want to go down and try and identify any
patterns that we can. So while we're speaking to them, we're thinking ourselves, we're looking at how after that situation occurs, and what makes it really urgent to solve now
versus later on. And that ties us to the buying dynamics, because we want to know who that main buyer is. Maybe they've got an operations person, a technical person, there would be
the other side of the buyer, and you always want a champion if possible to really encourage the adoption of this technology. We can go through it and click the ones that we need in
here just to keep track of it, as well as any budget characteristics. The next part is going to be all about the problem that you're solving. So, what is the expected task or
process that's broken? Who on their team handles it now, and how often is it happening? We can then work out the rough cost to the business for that process. So that will be the
number of hours they spend on it per week, the hourly rates for that person doing it, and then you can work out the total monthly cost when you do hours, times by the cost per
hour, multiplies by four to work out that rough monthly cost. You can add some opportunity costs in here as well, and that's all based on the principle, there's no such thing as a
free lunch, through living at revenue, we're looking at that causes a fine to them, if they don't do it properly, they've got any other impact of the business and much, much more.
We can then come down to here and see if they tried anything already, why you failed, what we need to know about that, who tried, and where they did in the business. We're going to
also consider anything else that will impact the benefits, i.e. their customer satisfaction, trustpilot schools, the burnout or turnover staff, being able to grow faster, compitive
advantage, or more. And then finally, we want to come through and just do a checkpoint for that problem. We want to know that it's actually a problem that they're going to struggle
with. It happens frequently, if possible. They try to solve it, so it shows their intent, but they need to go to plan. We also know we can quantify that tent to saving which we're
gonna touch on later on in the weeks. And then we also want to say that we can actually prove that our solution works, whether that because you don't keep yourself already, or
you've seen it be done online. If you come down here, you also want to know who the specific people are that we're reaching out to, the name, the company, how well, you know them,
as well as the ability to reach out to them directly, without the gatekeepers. We also want to know if they're associated learning communities or memberships so we can reach out to
them there. We also want to know if they've got any credibility or you've got any credibility or people you know that you caneverage to give you an intduction to have credibility,
because it relates to their specific situation. We can also look at the referral potential because of course, if you've got high amounts referral, be less word for you to do in
long run because you're going to get a really good brand in the market. But they're going go through and just double check for it all of these conditions met in here, and then we
can put it all together in Section 5 and write out our exact specific thermographic we're going after, the specific scenario, the specific problem they have, and why you're able to
reach out to it. And the reason we're doing all of this is because we can come down to our section here, which is all around coming up with an action plan. So we're gonna have a
list of people we need to reach out to, as well as when you're going to reach out to them. It can put this for a good sort of month or so time, so itives you enough time to go
through and really analyze all the materials in the class before reaching out to them. We can also add in here, just a confirmation to ourselves, so we sense checking, this is the
rightMP to go after, or we need to refine it. And then we can come up with some next steps, we're going touch on a much more later on in the setting goals module. So that's
everything for this one around identifying your ideal customer. We want to get a specific as possible on the businesses. We started to target, but we can always pivot later on. Now
there' Welcome to this module all around, defining a one line pitcher, or elevator pictures you may have heard about it to actually be able to say exactly what you do, nice and
quickly in a social setting, or maybe if you're more of a business setting, explaining what you do to get that hook of interest, to leave them onto more. So, what is a one-liner
pitch? Well, it's a single sentence that explains what you do? We want it to be clear enough for a 10 year old to understand,eresting enough that people want to know more, and
focuses on the problem you solve, not the solution, and how he does it. We don't want it to be a tagline or a slogan, a description of your technology, or filled with lots of
jaron, you a technical words industry speak, when it doesn't need to be. So what do I mean by this? Well, imagine you're in a cafe, coffee shop, and someone asks, what do you do?
That's exactly what we're looking to be yourself. You're going to have 10 seconds when someone asks, what do you do? Tell me about your business, or tell me what your company does
to be able to respond back. All one liner needs to make them curious, position yourself as solving a real problem and open the door for a deeper conversation if they're actually
interested. Now, this is the formula that I come up with, and what I recommend you playing around with, for how you're going to actually define your one lineer pitch. So we help
target a customer that struggles with, expensive problem, buying, approach, and results. So, bringing that to life, we use AI to automate business processes. That's good, but not
really, because it doesn't really tell us what we're actually doing and for who. A good example, that would be reh health insurance agencies, who weigh 20 plus hours per week or
manual policy renals, autating the entire workflow.ain, it' a little bit lengthy, we could probably cut that down a bit more, but you'll find over time as you get is more and more
conversational. But it's a lot more already to what we do, what we solve in the outcome, versus the original version. Another example would be we are assessed platform that e
commerce. Again, it doesn't really say what we do or how we do it. We help shopify supplement brands who lose tenkeep per month to custom service, emails, automate 80% of support
tickets. So again, a lot more technical, but hopefully it's starting to show you. There will be a lot more specific on who we help, how we help them, and the specific problem do
they experience. The next example is around, we provide consulting services for all firms. Again, not good enough. We help personal injured law firms who spend 15K per month on
paralegal dorine review, cut that cost by 80% of automation. So again, we're bringing to a that suddenly targeting. The problem will be held in with. Again, what we actually do at
the end result as well. So we're helping them understand the specific customer tank, we're looking to work. We're able to quify that specific problems, let' be, the actual costiv
at the time, the percentage, whatever it may be for that specific process. And we're going to hint to the solution without some of the technical jargon. So the first thing is
defining your target customer. E on, we did this around defining your ICP, so this is a bit more of a recap for the next couple of steps. Again, we're being specific.
Independenturance agencies with three to eight agents. Shop five stores selling supplements doing $1 million a year. Personal injury law firms with two to five attorneys. The next
part is an expensive problem., what is that they're actually experiencing? The number? We need to quantify. How often is it happening? What are they doing? How frequently, the
numbers and everything like this? Current. Are they dealing with that problem now. And then painful is actually causing them to lose out on opportunities. It's a really high cost
to deliver that service or maybe they're just missing on opportunities, wider in general. And then we go through and at the last part of the formula, all around stating our
approach. So we don't want to just say, what we do, we want to say the result, they're going to achieve, autom 80% of the process. Cut that cost by 70%. Get without tiring more.
And that's because the common mistakes with people trying to do their very own one, is they too vague or they're too technical? They don't actually explain the problem that they're
going after, and they're not specific enough. So now it's going to be your turn. We've just gone through around being able to define your ideal customer persona. So now we want to
start to bring into life where we help this company who struggle with this specific problem by doing this. You shouldn't be thinking of this probably from scratch. If you' go
through the last module, because you're starting to get an idea of who you want to target and you're going to help them as well., we're going through lots of refin, lots of
changing, lots of improvement in the future as well, how to pin it, but this is just a real quick one liner, on who you help, what they're driving with, and how you're going to
help them as well. Once you've done this, I want you to read your one liner to someone who goes, absolutely nothing about your business. That could be someone in your family, a
friend, a colleague, whoever, someone you can ask to. I know they can give you some audioback. The reason for this is because often, you said you one line of hitch to them, you
want to ask them these three questions. Who do you think I help? What do you think I solve? And why should they care? Because this is going to make sure that you set it up
correctly, because it's going to enable us to see how we active be clear enough or what we do, how we help them, and why they should care. But what we also want to do is make again
conversational where possible, because we're too rigid people don't always respond to them. So we could originally have weistant insurance agencies, experiencing capacity,
constraints quite formal, quite professional, really good in certain settings. But it's something that's a big more conversation, I'll get like that cafe. We have insurance
agencies who get slammed during a reural season. Again all we trying to do with is one liner, is sparking a little bit of interest from that person so they want to learn more about
what you do and the company. Another example, we leverage automation to optimize CRM workplace. Again, good tells us what we do. But we automate the boarding piles of sales follow
up, so you don't have to. There's a much more conversational tone and you'll probably get a better response with that second one. Again, being specific where we can. Save time and
money, what? It doesn't really give us anything. We cut 20 hours and save 5K per month. Instantly we start to see, that's me, I know I need help We cutting 20 hours of worth of
work, or I'm spending 5K on this process, I need to help. They know my problem, they know how to deal with it. Let's have some more chats. So where are we going to be using the
one- lineups? Well, we're going to be using them at networking events, meeting out of business owners. We can use it on our website right to the top of the homepage, explaining
what we do, for who and how we do it. If you've got social media profiles like LinkedIn or X Twitter, all of these other ones, Elder, we can use it on X explain what we do. So for
example, I do this, I help these people by doing this. So it helps people really understand and really quickly what your business does. You can also put in your email signature, so
it jogs people's mind, or if they have a searching you a Google search, do email search, it will then put up automation from Alex or automation from John Emily whenever it may be,
so that it keeps you fresh in mind, if they ever need to go through and search through their in for that specific one. We've also need it for our pitch decks and sales schools.
Again, if you ever go down this route to trying to chap to customers or investors or anything like this, you want to make it as simple as possible for what you do, how you do it,
it of course, if you're looking at these private capital side, they're going to be looking at something called the, so the total addressable market. So they really want to know who
you're going after, how you're helping them, serving them, and much, much more. Now we got through, I love that. So I want to give you some quick examples. So the SAS, we help you
to be business sales teams who weighs 10 hours a week on maggine entry, autom make their CRM updates., it's still quite more of that technical focus versus the conversational
focus, you can go through and change it as you need. That's where the second one is better. We help all firks who spend 50K a year on document review, cut that cost by 70% with
AI.ain, it sounds a lot more conversational and has a really great length that it's not too long to get the up and e-commerce, we have detC or direct consumer brands who lose 30%
of customers due to abandoned carts and held to recover around months in lost sales. We' finally for healthcare. We held medical practices to lose to reduce cancellations by 65%.
