this is there toousers. 60 days later, where you were 100 on November 30th, 2022, everything changed. In five days, Chat QPT was released, and went all the way to a million users.
60 day data, we were 100 million users. This was the fest growing application in history. And almost everyone was playing around with it, some started building entire businesses
around AR. 5K, 10K, 25K, 50K per month. Businesses started with no technical backgrounds, whatsoever, and many full time jobs. Helping businesses implementing was now becoming a
real opportunity for many out there. And welcome to the masterclass Building for very own, AI Automation, agency. This is going to be the first module that we're gonna run through
together, and it's gonna be everything around the AI business landscape at the moment, and we're gonna constantly refresh this in the background to always make sure that we can
show the latest information. So what we're gonna cover in this module? Well, first of all, we need to know how the cultrum AI is impossible to now everyone having AI. We're gonna
cover the current state of the implementation gap, which is creating a billion dollar opportunity for many, many non organizations out there, but more importantly, democratizing it
for the big for consultants out there, like Delitt. So Now everyone having a fair equal opportunity to go after this potential for visitors. Also the future, why the next 12 to 24
months are going to be so critical within this space? We're also gonna cover in the market reality. Again, we always have to be data driven, I always like to show you as much as
possible, and that the numbers actually matter without their being height or some of the feed promises out there, like others in the AI space showcase. We're also going to cover
four very common myths around worth the wib and starting an AI back business. We're gonna, of course, make sure it to cover a reality check at the end for how much time, money, I
worry really good to get the output. and then make your decision. Is this right review and of course, which pathway would you like to find? But how did we get. Well, it's been a 70
year journey in the making, all the way back in 1950, Alan During publishes the paper, computing, machinery, and intelligence, and introduces the cheat test, which was used for
many, many years, and it is even still used still. Then, in 1956, there was the first ever AI conference here to speak. We' in Dotmouth, and this is the Dalmouth Conference, where
they officially coined artificial intelligence, and the entire promise was around machines that seemed like AI.mership forwards to the 1970s, and what we find in this time period
is we're starting to change the way the AI's developed and shifting towards knowledge representation and expert systems. If we jump forwards again into the 1980s, this is where
Japan's fifth generation computer, lead the world to AI blogly, but it also occ coincided with the first series of AI winters, because the promise of AI has been overhyped and
hasn't actually delivered. If we jump forwards again to the 1990s, AA is now shifting from being hand coded rules to actually using data driven methods. But one of the key moments
in the 1990s was when IBM's Deep blue Comp computer defeated Gary Kmanov, the world' chess champion, in a game. The world is paying high attention, and we used to that. Ch events
never discovered like that. It was probably the biggest news coverage for a chess match ever. We were trying to prove that it was possible to build the chess machine that could be
probably the best world. challenging as far off in any way. I mean, here's pinnacle of just. He's incredible genius. There were people who, even just a few years before, said it
was when it take decades to do. The chess world, all expected to spar up to it, because the human had always won before. We worked very hard in the intermediating year, to improve
deep blue in various ways. I spent a lot of time in the office playing a lot of practice games, looking for lots of errors that the to be fixed, and we were pretty confident that
did we do better when we got to the match. That was the chance to see, did we make a difference?. He was under the tremendous. I imagine. The program wasn'taving the way he was
expecting. He thought that he was going to figure out the computer. And he wasn't prepare, I think. I mean, the whole game was surreal. What was he doing? It didn't really make any
sense. Whoa! Deep blue has instantly sacrificed with night capture E6 doesn't. knew problem. But at the end, tomorrow he stands up, he starts gestering. He looks over at his
mother. You can this this one for All right... You's as well...Harry sol's actual problems for businesses, and how they can take advantage of it. We're going to touch on this later
on, but is the principle of top line enhancements or reducing lots of line costs. And we're going to go through both of those because that's where the opportunity sits for us
today. I'm one of the other reasons that the expertise is such a key part is because Her's absolutelyolute to explosion. I couldn't even cover up all of the penny chair. I couldn't
there are so many different ones, thousands and thousands of AI powered tools, as well as automation platforms. Many of these are may have started just before or just after 2020,
and over the last six years, have come leaps and balanced because of the transformation breakthrough back in 2017 That also follows with the fact that there's now more options than
ever, and there's more confusion than ever. So businesses don't know what tool to use, where to use it, what they should build themselves, versus, buy off the shelf and everything
else in this space. Now you'll see here in the background, we've got something called the adoption curve. There's always been the leaders in adopting this technology. They're
called the innovators. They're always at the front of the line trying to get access to the latest innovation. Then you'll come up to the early adopters. So this is we're starting
to get more and more businesses, want to try and want to use it before shifting into the early majority. And this first half of the graph is where we offer, not to AI tools and
adoption today. Now, what you tend to find is now are certain deparlments and organizational industries that like to wait and see the markets beforehand. A gr example,
traditionally is around the government space, they normally want to be late to the party, having seen that it works, firstat be an early, and incorporate it straight away. And then
we also get the lagards to write to the end. And these are the last few businesses that actually adopt it and actually use it day to day. But as as I mentioned, there's loads and
loads of tools coming to the market, there's always the latest iteration of Chat BT or cruled or Gro or Gemini, and what this means is we're constantly going back to the start.
We're constantly going back from earlier majority to early adopctors, to innovators, because mortals are la weekly, there's more and more integrations possible, there's more
options than ever to choose from, but also, there's more ways of doing it wrong. And that's where our expertise can come in and help gu businesses or what you use cases, what are
bad use cases, and where they should take advantage. So we've got the four key stages where we boiled it down. We've got most businesses are aware of Aon, and know that it could
transform part of their operations. The next level down from now is that leaders within businesses are aware of AI and want to use it and have it as part of a strategic fan, but
actually haven't turned it on or used it yet. After that, we then have life. And this is where very, very few businesses have actually gone through an integrated AI into lots of
workflows, because there's a big difference between telling on your chat GPT account or Claude or Grok just to have a conversation with versus having it embedded in entire
workflows so that it can generate content on autopilots, it can help speed up processes, respond to customers, screen CDs, anything like this. And that's where we go to the last
part, which is strategic. And this is where a very, very few amount of businesses have actually understood, great, we've got a pilotwork of one or two areas, and now we're looking
to scale it strategically across our entire business. How it will ties together, all of the different parts, and much, much more. So let's bring that down further. When you're
speaking to businesses, if they're in the aware phase, the normally same phrases like, " I don't know where to use it, I've heard about X, Y,Z, tool, and it looked cool, but I
haven't heard it on. I've seen there's lots of market reports about AI in this part of the business, or giving benefits in this area, but I haven't turned on. I'm confident it can
give me the uppers, I't trust it, and all these different things.'s more commonly becoming the case is they come to a conference or a talk about AI and they hear us amazing, but
they don't know what to do. So that's where the next level down comes in. And also all about intent, which is where they go from being aware that AI basically exists to actually
having an idea or a plan on how they could use it. So, for example, their intent could be that they want to reduce costs, they need to improve X, YZ performance metric, they want
to on board customers in a quicker round of time, for example, they want to reduce the lead to cash process, i. how long it takes to identify all the way through to getting paid.
So there's loads of different metrics that sit around that to be able to improve business performance. Maybe they' said that they've used it personally, like their own charitity
accounts, but they're not actually incorporated it into the business. And that's where many of the executives are today is they trust it with their own personal, you know, writing
of poems or maybe rewriting an email here there. They've not really incorporated it properly into the business. A very common one as well is the highest level of sort of
integration, to speak, which they've started using, Gemini or coilot, the de facto at AI tools, in many, many different platforms. So this is where it's already there. They've
played around with it and they tried to get some improvements. The next part is live, and this is where very few have actually gone through an integrated AI solutions into an
entire workflow. We're talking having the entire on boarding process automated. We're talking about screening, the majority of the same bees that come into a business. It's now
generating 80% of the content for marketing, with a little approval of the either end forThis is the idea, and yet we're happy for it to go out to the rest of the world. So it
helps them to speed up that entire process. Or maybe, like I mentioned earlier, they've got a specific tool, like sales force, and they've paid for it and turned on extra elements
like the AI agent. Really good for specific tasks, but very, very domain focused for the alput it's producing. And that's where we go to smallest sl of businesses at the mainland,
which is that very few are actually using AI, effectively at scale. And this applies to all organizations, of all sizes, because what you'll see is the minI reports out there from
Golo McKenzie, all of these different ones saying that AI implementation is still on the plan. They've tried it here or there, but they're not actually looking at how it transforms
their business and to end. So, for example, they have a one year r map on how they're going to integrate with the AI, but they haven't thought for the next five years or 10 years,
or then you're offering that they could produce or where they're going to shift the business in the long term as well. Maybe they've incorporated it into the pan to achieve a
specific goal within a specific time. Again, in the private equity world, working with some of the business that they own. Maybe they to reduce costs by ext because that's when
they're going to sell the business and they need to show you that they're, you know reducing the operational costs where possible. They're increasing the amount of money that they
can bring in and more. Lastly as well, they turned AI and automation on across a multiple business processes, but did not quite scaled it up to having lots and lots of cases or
tasks going through that end to end. And that's where we come in. And what we're trying to do is help them understand So we need to be able to speak their language, not tech
Dargon, I need to make sure that we can explain what he can do, how it works, at a high level that resonates with them. For example, with the voice I know, the Tephhan AI, they
told them to know how Vapppy works or retail works, or anything like this, the majority just care does it answer the phone 247, can it book in a meeting with this potential lead,
yes or no? We need to explain it in terms for them, that they understand versus the real tech, tool stack that is behind it. We also need to make sure is that we really understand
their problem. And that's why L one in this master class and different modules, we're going to be going through and identifying your niche specifically, what're out, maybe what you
have some experience in, doing different research to find problems, that you'll be able to solve whether it's assess solution or actually delivering one of projects. We also need
to make sure that we're able to actually implement the solutions. You don't want to talk to them about theory and promising things you can't actually deliver. They need to be
solutions that can actually be implemented for that business. The next part is reasonable quins. You're seeing many YouTubers and other people out there saying that they charge
hundreds of thousands of dollars to be el to implement it. But if reality is for a lot of the smaller medium sized businesses out there, that's not realistic for them. We're gonna
touch it later on in the master classes, how we can go through and break down our pricing, understanding what we should charge of what stage, how to do SAS versus one off, ongoing
costs, from, silver gold, tearing of solutions, and much, much more. businesses, but also going to want false results, especially in the smaller medium sized space, they're not
going to weigh 12 months to get a solution. They want something set up with in a couple of days, a week, that they will be able to go through and use straight away. And that also
ties into the costs of the metric that they've associated with that, and how we can go through in touch on the pricing before, we can do some stage dates around payments as well.
The other thing we're gonna want to understand as well is why they are spending in the first place. It could be that they're competitors are already spending on AI, they want to
keep up, maybe they've got some bottom in the existing process. That means they're not a. And then November 2022 Louis McKenzie, all of these different ones, saying saying that A
implementation is still on their plan, perhaps the operational will cost the multiple business processes, but they're not quite scaled it up to having lots and lots of cases or
tasks going through that end to end. And that's where we come in. And what we're trying to do is help them understand what they need.at a high level that resonates with them. For
example, with the voice I I know, the telephony AI, they told want to know how vap he works or retail works or anything like this, the majority just care, does it answerms of a
phone 24/7, C it booking a meeting with this potential lead, yes or no? We need to explain it in terms for them, that they understand versus the real tech, tool stack that sits
behind it., we also need to make sure is that we really understand their problem. That's why later on in this master class and different modules, we're going to be going through
and identifying your niches. specifically, we'll log it out, maybe what you have some experience in doing different research to find problems, that you'll be able to solve, whether
it's assess solution or actually delivering one of projects. We also need to make sure that we're able to actually implement the solutions. You don't want to talk to them about
theory and promising, you can't actually deliver. They need to be solutions that can actually be implemented for that business. The next part is reasonable quot. You're seeing many
of the YouTube videos and other people are there saying that they charge hundreds of thousands of dollars to be able to implement it. But if reality is, for a lot of the smaller
mediumsized businesses out there, that's not realistic for them. We're gonna touch it later on in the master classes, how we can go through and break down RRY pricing,
understanding we be in charge of what stage, how to do SAST versus one off ongoing costs, silver gold tearing of solutions, and much, much more. But businesses, they're also going
to want files results, especially in the small and medium sized space, they're not going to wait 12 months to get a solution. They want something set up with them in a couple of
days, or weeks, that they'll be able to go through and use a strange way. And that also ties into the costs on the metric that they've associated with that, how you can go through
and touch on the pricing before, we can do some stage gates around payments as well. The other thing we're going to want to understand as well is why they are spending in the first
place. It could be that they're competit are already spending on AI, they want to keep up, maybe they' got some bott eggs in the existing process. That means they're not able to
scale without increasing the number of people they hire, or the number of people they got on ball, or the number of cases that they can completely within a certain time, the number
of, maybe it's the particular in the customer service base, much, much more. The other side is the cost saving as well, and there's no getting around this, because this is
definitely part of one lot of businesses are looking at AI because there's a big difference between a 10K AI going through doing that solution day to day versus a $40,000 a year,
you know, an average human, to go through and complete that process. It doesn't take six days, it's not on holiday, it works 247, 365. And that's of course, why lots of business is
looking at it, so definitely keep that in mind, you can't get around it's just something that's happening in the world today. The other side that not businesses are looking at as
well, is how they can use it for a new revenue opportunity. For example, I've been working with some firms in the UK and they're looking at how they launch maybe a porter with some
low cost to serve that has AI the back engine advising or customizing templates for them so that they can then go through and actually deliver that at low cost, maybe, you know,
thousand pounds a year, just to get some low ticket entry for NDAs or dissolution agreements or anything like this, for businesses to use day to day. The other side of this is
understanding something called the top line, as well as the bottom line for businesses. Now, the top line is basic money into the business, and that's what we just touched on. What
is a revenue opportunity for them? What's a new product that they could sell? What's a new service that they could sell? Can they do more with less? Can they have an AI chat agent
for coaching, for example? It's all of these different revenue and income stream opportunities that they're not going to have thanks to AI. The other side of this is the bottom
line. Now, this is money out of the business, and you know if they're talking about this because it's to do with costs, the time taken to complete a process. impact business. This
is how they've got existing costs and they're looking to stream ideas, being more agile and everything into space. So if they're looking to make more money with AI, we're probably
looking at the top line, they're looking to reduce the time to complete a process, the cost associated with a business, or anything, in that space, that's where it's likely to be
the bottom line. Now, something really important to note is the bottom line is norm only where a lot of the costs actually sits for businesses. Then you see lots of YouTube demos
out there and lots of people, a brand new Sassle rings, maybe for the top line, or solutions they built for sales, and that is really good. And that's on your fraction of the
iceberg versus the depth that's beneath it, for the bottom line operating costs for many businesses day to day. And that's why for many AI isn't it nice to have A. It's actually
now become a must have. And businesses are willing to pay to get it right first time, and have that continuous improvement, go with it as well. And that's how we've come up to
where we are today, and the real opportunity that is carrying facing us. Now, what you look at 2025 and beyond, honestly, who knows? We just saw the brand new cs at 4.5 release,
and that absolutely blue people away because it was supposed to be double the autonomous cading time from two hours to four hours, but it's just from two hours to 30 hours. So,
honestly, I think if anyone tells you that they can predict the future when it comes to AI, something's not. You know, it smells from future, you say that's a bit of BS probably in
the air, when it comes to that. I think that there's some rep repeatable patterns, that we can definitely take into consideration, but it really is ed it unknown at the magnum. But
the reality is, there's definitely opportunities to help businesses implement this and cut costs, or for you to go through and develop maybe assass. The businesses can buy on a
monthly subscription, that improves some aspect of them, day to day. And there's no way to anwering that. You're able to choose both of the pathways, and we've got both master
classies on that to cover. So let's go through an example of maybe how we can predict the future, because it's very similar to websites. In 1998, it was all about doing this one.
I'm not sure if this is a reality, and then by 2005, it was a must have, and everyone needed it. And then by 2010, I mean, every businesses had to have one, and you couldn't really
exist with that one. And this is similar to Aon. When it first got released in 2022, everyone was like, this is cool, I can get it to write sentences, for two things there's a
pretty funky upput for some of the ones, and it was knowing he was great as he was today. My favorite explanation "Th is always the video of Will Smith eating pasta because it
shows just how far AI video generation has come. Then, by 2023 and 2024, many companies have actually started playing around with it and realizing that they can actually get some
benefits out of it. And that's why in 2025, there was a huge shift. And it was the realization for many businesses, that they need to figure this out. They need to implement it.
They need to see what area the business that's going to be impacted by how they can use it. I' 530 groups as well, and they' even thinking,W the businesses's going to be
fundamentally impacted with it, I.e, if they' got a call center, is that going to be completely destroyed by say, within the next couple of years? So how do they incorporate in
maybe voice AI, into the existing company, how do they shift what they're offering? How do they need more competitive? And as much, much more. And that's why by 202 26, really and
beyond, we're looking at not using AI. Why is that? What's missing here? For many organizations? So that's the shift that's currently undergoing. And AI is following that path of
the website, but much, much faster. Now, I'm gonna give you some real treats for a second. Which is that you're probably not the first to think of this specific solution or alpput
that you're trying to achieve. We're nowhere near to saturation, and that's great, because the question isn't, is there room for me? The actual question is when I take action. And
this is how you're gonna be able to go through, set up your own company, and start speaking to businesses, and much, much more. So, what does that market opportunity actually look
like? This isn't my opinion. We're going to run through some actual numbers. So, I got the Census Bure data from the US government, so definitely look at this for your specific
location. Now, what you can see in here is the top 20 industries with optimal 100 employees within their businesses. So we can see that 15% is professional scientific advisory
firms. There's 9% in the construction space. We've got 8.6% in others, we've got 7% in healthcare and social, 7.5% in retail trade. We've got accommodation, restaurants and much,
much more. And this is where we're going to start over the next couple of episodes, as well into week two and beyond, is really identify what least you want to claim and the game
that sits around that as well. To bring that to life, if we then start to deep dive in the top 20 industries with less than 10 employees, we can see as professional and scientific
advisory at 21% always, construction at around 12%, other services at 11 and a real tow and the other ones as well. But if we come across to the industries with 10 to 20 employ
years, we can now see that accommodation is actually starting to come up. Restaurants has jumped up lastly, healthcare and social is still going strong, and the professional and
scientific advisory funds has dropped out. If we now come up, the next bracket is well for 20 to 13 years, we've still got aination in the restaurants and healthcare. If we come
across to 3040, again, those three industries still needing strong. We can come up again to 40 to 15 breeze, still the same ones, still the same with 50 to 75, but the proportions
are changing around a lot. I include getting blow to the direct data all of these dards, so you can find them nice and easily. The reason I'll show you these last called ones
specifically, is because many of the businesses you going to start to work with, probably have up to 100 employees, who most likely have from around five employees, probably up to
around 20 to 50. So that's kind of the area that you're looking at. If you maybe psycho going, but Alex, these numbers are so small. Why do I care about 10% for social care and
health? Well, if we come back up to that top 20 industries, with up to 100 employees. So now we're gonna take the example of looking at restaurants specifically. So if I look at
this graph, it's 5%. It doesn't sound like that much. But actually, there's 900,000 restaurants and other eating places. There's25,000 full service restaurants. There's 162,000
limited service restaurants. So there's a huge number there, tucked away and what looks like, 5%. So why am I showing you this? Well, if you come across to the next line, what that
means is there's 1. 3 million restaurants, that you'd be able to targetgue with AI and automation solutions alone. And that's just in the US. There's only a few to expand to maybe
other English speaking countries. You've got the EU, you've got Canada, you've got so many different places, you can turn on the technology. So we're going to run through an
example. I've broken it down, as you can see on the screen here, for the number of employees within a business, and the number of restaurants within that category. So for example,
if there's five to nine employees within that business, we've got 256,000 companies that meet that criteria. So let's just target one of the ones that I mentioned between five to
20 employees. That's going to be 531,000 businesses, that we be able to target. Now, we're starting off, and this is a huge number. So maybe we're only here with a land's 0.1%,
which sounds like a such a small number. Actually, that's five companies. If we' to put a 5K deal on those five paid companies, what'll we looking at is almost 26,000, just by
targeting that not 0. 1% of restaurants in the five to 20 employees category. So as you can see there, you can have some big numbers coming through from what looks like a small
niche area. Now, so if we get really good at what we're offering, how we price it, the structure, how we go up from Northpoint North 1% to North1%. Now, we've gone from five
companies up to 53 pays companies, and again, keeping it on that 5K per deal, we've now gone to 265,000, just for 0.01% of restaurant companies between $5,000 to 20 employees. So
we're still talking about really small numbers here. There were able to go through in Target to get the outcomes. Now, maybe you're more interested in doing one off deals and
you're more interested in using maybe the Vine Code platforms are lovable or bolt or curse, or anything like this, to build assassin inc instead. So we're gonna switch it from a 5K
per deal to $300 per month, maybe for a restaurant booking automation, it's got a an automated voice agent that goes with it. It's got the software to make sure the calend's book
correctly. It can do the seat selection, it's got the emails that go there, you know, a full stag restaurant service or back end, that goes through a mons that business. And $300
isn't that much. Now, say we've still got that 0.01% that we've converted. And if we keep that 53 page companies like we have before, that's now going to be by $16,000 per month
that you'd be able to pull through, just by looking at that specific niche. So when we come back up to this huge diagram here, and we realize that we were looking at almost 4.8%
within that category, and now we've got all of these different opportunities. It shows you how big the actual pie is for us to go through. And the reality is there's more work than
people to do it at the moment. And those numbers may have sound a bit alarming, how we get to them, you, what all of this different stuff, but we're going to cover that much more
later on, you in much more detail for the market opportunity, chooing your niche or you'll good out how to price it and much, much more. I just wanted to reassure you just how big
the opportunity is and that we're not oversurated at the momentance. We're now going to start to look through my busted, and what's potentially holding you back. drop drop comment
below if you remember, Mythbusters. It was to show you that it was on. A years ago, you many years ago, all around start testing out to hypothesis. So I'll be interested to see how
many people know that. But let's go through myth number one. You need to be technical or a programmer to get results, not true. You need to be able to understand what businesses
need, know which tools, solve which problems, be able to identify painpoints and problems, and communicate clearly. That's what people want from you. Okay, what I mentioned is
they're looking for that end result of doesn't make a phone call. he book appointments? Can you send emails? I't even mate. That's what they want to me, because that's the problem
they have. They don't care if they's using flux image versus sead versus Kling versus V3 or whatever, anything else in the background. They just want to know, is going to solve
their specific pain that they're currently gob. So what we need to do is start developing skills such as problem solving, logical thinking, are willingness to learn, communication
and business ac. If you've heard of business acen before, it's basically understanding how businesses work, the different teams that are tied together, how it compares to the
market, and how best practice is being done, sharing lessons, and lot of this area. And all of these are learnable. You don't need to have them all in one go right to the start. So
take it piece by piece. You don't need to be an expert from day one and giving rules and building a day. We're looking to break it down into small, miserable steps and just keep
chipping away. at 1% better every day, you don't to be a full blown expert by tomorrow. And that's where we come back to that myth, too. The market is situated, and I don't believe
that's true. The big thing that you're probably noticing on social media is a load of AI influences, but they're very different to AI practitioners. I'll be surprised if you
actually look through are lots of influences out there, how many of them actually work with businesses day today and use it versus just exploring and sharing what they lessons
learned are. So that's a big difference between what the influcers gonna showcase what's out there, versus more the practition is that actually go through, use it every day,
influence it with businesses, and that can be everything for talking to businesses, more on a consulting basis, all the way through to visit to AI in the background. They just want
to know, is going to solve their specific pinpoint that they've currently got. So what we need to do is start developing skills such as problem solving, logical thinking, a
winningness to learn, communication and business emen. If you've heard of this Eclmen before, it's basically understanding how businesses work, the different teams that tied
together, how he compares to the market, and how best practice is being done, sharing lessons, and lots of this area. And all of these are learnable. You don't need to have them
all in one go right to the start. So take it piece by piece. You don't to be expert from day one, again, rules and in a day. We're looking to break it down to small, miserable
steps and just keep chilling away at 1% better every day, you don't need to be a full blown expert by tomorrow. And that's when we come back to that myth, too. The market is
saturated, and I do believe that's true. The big thing that you'll probably noticing on social media is a load of AI influers, but they're very different to AI practitioners. I'd
be surprised if you actually look through, I'm not the influenences out there, how many of them actually work with businesses need today and use it versus just exploring and
sharing what their lessons nugs are. So that's the big difference between the influences kind of showcasing what's down there versus more the petition is that actually go through,
use it every day, implement it with businesses, and that can be everything for all talking to businesses, more on a consulting basis, all that be through to building something and
handing it over to them, to the actual sassciety bits where there's so many different areas. You don't have to be pigeonholed into one. You don't have to just listen to what influ
is and what the market is saying for different aspects, try and understand what you really enjoy, what your sk set is, and then we canive into that. Now, the other part of this as
well, is, when I think of market saturated, I think of maybe more annoy your accountant, because I get thousands of emails, probably every week, saying. To the actual sassite of
it's well, there's so But the influcer's got to showcase it what's out there versus more the practitioner gives it different to a. And I don't believe that's true. The big thing
that you're probably noticing on social media is a lot of AI conferences, but they're very different to AI practitioners. I'll be surprised that if you actually look through are
not the implementers out there, how many of them actually work on businesses day today and news it versus just exploring and sharing what their lessons learned are. So that's the
big difference between what the influ is gonna showcase and what's down there versus more the practitioners that actually go through, use it every day, implement it with
businesses, and that can be everything for talking to businesses, more on a consulting theis, all the way through to building something and handing it over to them to the actual
side of it as well. There's so many different areas, you don't have to be pigeonholed into one. You don't have to just listen to what influcers and what the markets saying for
different aspects, try and understand what you really enjoy, what your skill set is, and then we can detive into that. Now, the other partners as well is, when I think of market
saturated, I think of maybe more lawy your accountant, because I get thousands of e emails probably every week saying, come and be with us with, you know're an accounting firm. We
want you to come and board." And the reality is that there's no one lawyer to about five businesses in the US. There's about one accountant to about five businesses in the.S.
There's about one web developed f to about 14 businesses in the U.S. And again, this is the U.S Cens of State from 2022 exactly the same on. I've not made these numbers up, there
we are nowhere near this level at the moment for AI solution developers, consultants, risk advisory people, methodology. We can do AI coaching, training, CAS platform, all of these
different things. I bet you it's nowhere near like those numbers are. The next myth is that AI will do everything itself, and AI will replace me. Now, yes, AI is going to replace
specific rubbels. That can be physical, AI, you know, more r robotic size, or it could be more software based AI. Yes, there are going to be industries impacted, and yes, it is
going to undergo change in the economy as well. But it's not quite there yet. There's also different reasons that I believe it just won't overtake everything. And that's because
humans are still humans. There's all these videos on YouTube that you can watch about how to get in shape in 60 days, but people still pay for fitness trailers. You can pick up
loads of loads of eb books. you can watch videos online about subjects and become a master in it off YouTube, but some people just still want to buy books. And that's where some of
the news are there is a bit fear mongering, and that's why you're just got to be able to see through it. usese some common sense, see what your opinion is, again, everyone's got
their own opinion for where you think the market's going to go. But what it also means is this is also creating more of an opportunity for us as experts than ever before, but
increasing complexity, there's more ways to fail. The other key part is that time is becoming more and more valuable for business owners that you're engag with. When we're gonna
run through an example in a second. Also, integration can get harder. There's gonna be more systems to connect with, there can be more customization that is in these different
platforms to get the outfits they want. I look at content engineering. That didn't exist a couple years ago, and now it can help you get some really great outfits within the AI as
well. And the states are getting higher and higher. Businesses are putting into more and more different areas of businesses, and this means that it can be more cost if it goes
wrong, they don't control their token usage, it can go out of control, it can, you know massively increase the costs. And the other keep your minds as well, is your agency, your
consulting firm, your SAS, whatever you want to call it, that's not competing with Chat GPT. Business owners spending 30 hours more, learning how to do exactly what you can do for
them in a day is where your opportunity is. They're cheap implementations in place, and it's not doing the results they actually wanted and breaking. This is causing them more
headache than it's worth. Or they're starting to do their own DIY solutions, but they never finish them. And that's where you can win by delivering results faster and better with
this headache, than then trying to get themselves. To show you this in reality, for example, a lawyer in the EK is around75 pounds an hour, plus UAT, which is the 20% tax in the
