pass them out at the party. (Danny got mad at me about those T-shirts; for him, it was counting our chickens before they hatched, and bad luck. Looking back, I’m inclined to agree
with him, but at the time, it felt right.) We raged into the night. And the next day, when we opened for lunch service, there were Riedel champagne flutes tipped over on Madison
Avenue, and a homeless guy in the park was wearing one of our four-star shirts. The dining room, though, was immaculate, ready for our first four-star lunch. Bottles of champagne
and giant bouquets of flowers arrived every day for the next week. Each of the five other four-star restaurants in New York sent a gift to welcome us to the club, and our regulars
came to celebrate what their support had helped us achieve. Even when we were down, we’d played offense, and it had worked. Not only had we made it through the recession alive, but
we’d emerged stronger than before. CHAPT ER 16 EARNING INFORMALITY THE FOUR-STAR REVIEW CHANGED EVERYTHING. Our dining room was full every night. The team was floating on air. I
never stopped being mindful about spending, but we did stop cutting the kitchen’s paper towels in half, and the cooks went back to wearing proper paper toques. With the increased
business came a host of new challenges. We needed to hire and train about twenty-five new employees between the kitchen and the dining room. We even had to reprogram our phone
system to handle the increased traffic. The biggest challenge took the form of shifting expectations. Guests coming to dine at a three-star restaurant have very different hopes for
that meal than guests coming to dine at a place that has recently earned its fourth star. Some members of our team internalized that shift, convincing themselves that we needed to
take ourselves more seriously. It’s like the first time you buy an expensive suit; you feel you need to dress up for the suit, instead of remembering that the point of the suit is
to dress you up. We were thrilled to have a fourth star, but we’d gotten there by focusing on creating a meaningful connection with our guests, and we couldn’t let the accolade
erode what had gotten us there in the first place. We had not abandoned our notion of being the first four-star restaurant for our generation. We still wanted to bring a comfort
and informality and sense of fun to fine dining. Bruni himself supported this. In the Diner’s Journal, he wrote: “I realized that I’d been recommending Eleven Madison to people
more often than I did its four-star betters (then), because it came close to their intensity of coddling without a tariff quite as high, a code of conduct quite as rigid, a set of
airs quite as intimidating. It found a hugely appealing compromise in this regard.” Bruni had recognized that we were bringing a more casual approach to fine dining—all the
excellence, with less of that uncomfortable starch. Our informality had helped us earn that fourth star. Still, people were reserving tables months in advance; for many, this meal
would be one of the most expensive ones of their lives. Given the hype and the price, they wanted a little ceremony. So we were faced with a conundrum: the very feature that had
won us this accolade—our ease and informality in the dining room—had suddenly become less appropriate in the wake of it. This was especially true because we all looked so young. At
the time, the average age of a person working in the dining room at EMP was twenty-six. Daniel was a baby-faced thirty-two-year-old when we got four stars; I was twenty-nine, still
getting carded in bars. Even before our four- star review (and for sure after it), this was a shock to people: they weren’t expecting a restaurant like EMP to be run by a bunch of
kids. But we didn’t want to change who we were, especially because an overly formal environment would get in the way of the connection we were trying to make. The approach we used
to combat this was what we called earning informality. When I started dating my wife, I called her dad Mr. Tosi; I knew I’d earned his trust when he finally told me to call him
Gino. Informality is something you earn. Similarly, we had to earn the respect of guests alarmed by how young we were by amping up the formality at the beginning of their meal.
Over the course of the evening, though, we’d earn their trust enough to shift their expectations, so we could encourage them to come along with us for the ride. Our approach to
service couldn’t happen to them, it had to happen for them; we had to invite them, not force them. Being Present The summer after my first year at Cornell, I worked at Tribeca
Grill. I’d been hired as a management intern, but when a few servers quit, I found myself waiting tables for the first time—which meant a trial by fire at one of the busiest
restaurants in New York City. I had no idea what I was doing, and I knew it. My strategy in situations like that is always to figure out who the highest performers are, study their
approach, and try to emulate it. I was first interested in a group of servers who were like Keanu Reeves manipulating the Matrix; they saw everything and were always one step
ahead. Those servers always knew exactly who was ready for another bottle of wine and who was about to ask for the check; as a result, they turned tables with ruthless efficiency.
But something didn’t add up. Every night, I’d calculate the tip sheet, and I noticed that another group of servers, who turned far fewer tables, had higher check averages and
earned more in tips. Let me say that again: they served fewer people but made more money. That’s as good a measure of the guests’ satisfaction as anything, so I started to study
this second group instead. I quickly realized that this was the real A team. In many ways, these servers were less excellent than their more proficient colleagues—their tables
waited longer to order, and for dessert menus, and for their checks. But when these less efficient servers were at the tables, connecting with their guests, they were so focused on
the interaction that the bonds they created were much stronger. Even if the service was slightly less perfect, the guests liked the experience more. The first group was attentive;
the second paid attention. I often describe “being present” as caring so much about what you’re doing that you stop caring about everything you need to do next. That second group
of servers embodied that beautifully. When they were talking to guests, they were fully present with them. They were being rewarded for their hospitality, not their excellence.
After EMP earned four stars, my entire focus shifted to hospitality. We had excellence on lock; it was time to double down on relationships. And so, for the next year, being
present was our main focus. When we were with a guest, we were with that guest. We had trained for years to provide all the starch that people expected from a restaurant of our
caliber. Now our focus was on giving those same people more warmth and connection than they expected from a restaurant of our caliber. We were no longer in the business of running
an extraordinary restaurant; we were now in the business of human connection. And apparently, the world was noticing. Because one morning in early 2010, after I’d checked in with
the morning team and made myself a latte, I opened the mail. Bill, junk mail, bill, bill, bill. One envelope piqued my interest, though, and when I ripped it open, I discovered
that EMP had been nominated as one of the World’s 50 Best Restaurants for 2010. CHAPT ER 17 LEARNING TO BE UNREASONABLE I CAN STILL FEEL THE WAVE of embarrassment and
disappointment that washed over me when they announced that Eleven Madison Park had come in fiftieth—dead last—on the World’s 50 Best Restaurants list for 2010. The twist in my gut
is as vivid to me now as it was that night. I spent the entire flight home from London trying to find the words I would use when I got back to the restaurant and met with the
entire team; we knew they’d be devastated by how the awards had turned out for us. Ultimately, it was with my dad’s favorite quote that I opened the all-staff meeting Daniel and I
led upon our return: “What would you attempt to do if you knew you could not fail?” After a setback, it’s a leader’s job to take their team through their own emotional
reckoning—from disappointment to motivation—and to chart the course ahead, because everyone has to be aligned on what you’re going to do next. The restaurant was full; our four
stars had made sure of that, and a week before, that had been enough. But Daniel and I had come home from London with a crumpled cocktail napkin and a new goal; we wanted to be the
number one restaurant in the world. “We didn’t like hearing our names called in last place; we’re going to use that humiliation to push ourselves,” we said. “As amazing as the
restaurants in the top ten are, we could be just as good, if not better. We want to be number one.” It was a tremendous risk to articulate that dream out loud. When you set a goal
for your team and fail to achieve it, you run the risk of damaging morale—and this was a particularly audacious benchmark, given that slipping a single spot would mean falling off
the list entirely. But the engine behind that bold statement was another quote, this one by Jay-Z: “I believe you can speak things into existence.” I know this for sure: if you
don’t have the courage to state a goal out loud, you’ll never achieve it. At that meeting, we were inviting the team to decide to go for it with us. When you’ve surrounded yourself
with talented people, there’s nothing more powerful than a collective decision. If this electric group decided to accomplish this goal, then—no matter how far-fetched or
difficult—we would. Unsurprisingly, they were on board. We wouldn’t have to waste another minute deciding. Now, we just had to do. Reasonable vs. Unreasonable When I’d scribbled
the words “Unreasonable Hospitality” on that napkin, I hadn’t the slightest idea how we’d put those words into practice. But you don’t need to know exactly what an idea means to
start pursuing it; often, all you need is a sense of what you’re trying to achieve. Start pushing, try different things, and the idea will begin to define itself. Behavioral
science expert Rory Sutherland says the opposite of a good idea should also be a good idea. That’s why the idea of Unreasonable Hospitality was so compelling. The opposite of
Unreasonable Hospitality isn’t treating people poorly, it’s reasonable hospitality—a perfectly fine way of doing business. But reasonable was not how we were going to become the
number one restaurant in the world. So, we started changing our approach to hospitality in radical ways. Mostly because those words I’d jotted down—Unreasonable Hospitality— gave
birth to an idea that would be completely central to everything that came afterward, which was to provide the kind of welcome that would give our guests the feeling we were doing
things differently. We had already upgraded the guest experience, and many of the luxurious details—the creamy linens, the thick leather cover on the wine list, the heft of the
silver—were designed to communicate excellence. But we were trying to create a different kind of four-star restaurant, where every detail of your comfort had been anticipated and
attended to, one where you felt truly comfortable. And this was where I felt I could make my mark. The details that made us excellent were essential—a dedication to refinement,
superior technique, and polish. But I wanted the details that defined our hospitality to be unreasonable. When we were sitting in the auditorium, waiting for the 50 Best awards to
begin, I was aware that every person in the room—Daniel and me included—was engaged in an unreasonable pursuit of excellence. But for almost everyone, the focus of that
unreasonable pursuit was what was on the plate. It was the same old story: the magic happened in the kitchen, and the dining room was in service of that magic. A dish we were known
for at the time was a filet of turbot, meticulously covered with paper-thin slices of zucchini arranged to overlap so they mimicked a fish’s scales. The fish was then vacuum-
packed with olive oil and herbs and cooked sous vide at precisely 54.2 degrees Celsius for eighteen minutes, then served on top of a saffron broth with a fried and stuffed zucchini
blossom. Every single element of the dish represented weeks of research and development and testing; each part took hours of training to prepare and execute. And all for two
bites—maybe three minutes of a guest’s life! That’s not reasonable, but it’s wonderful. I had already seen how impactful our focus on graciousness at EMP had been, so I wondered:
What would happen if we took the same unreasonable approach to how we prepared that dish and applied it to hospitality? Hospitality Isn’t a Transaction We often spoke about the
bubble we were working to create around each table. If the food was timed correctly, the lights and music just right, and our service so complete and unobtrusive that we were
always there when the guests wanted us to be, and never when they didn’t, then the bubble would exist around every table. Guests wouldn’t be distracted by one another; they would
be fully engaged in the experience. Time would cease to exist. But if the food took too long, or if someone dropped a tray of glassware, or if a computer was printing a few feet
from their table, then the bubble would pop, and the spell would be broken. We’d worked hard to make our service flawless, so that the food was perfectly paced and nobody was
dropping trays. But as long as that printer was in the dining room, the bubble was getting broken all night long—it was a constant reminder that guests were sitting in our
business, not in our home. I conducted an audit to remove anything that felt transactional from our dining room. We started by banishing the Micros terminals, the computers
restaurants use to enter orders and print checks, from the dining room. That was a relatively easy one, though we did have to build a room adjacent to the kitchen, where we could
keep them along with the silverware, glassware, and all the other supplies we used for service. But I saw the biggest opportunity to test-drive Unreasonable Hospitality at our
front door, where we welcomed our guests. Ordinarily, you walk into a restaurant and approach the maître d’ standing behind a podium, bathed in the ugly glare of an iPad screen.
You say: “Hey, I have a reservation tonight,” and give your name. They look down, stab around the screen a little bit. Then the maître d’ turns to the host and says, “You can take
them to table 23.” Everything about that is transactional—the screen, the fact that you’re being transported around the restaurant like cargo, the table number. Maybe I’m being a
little dramatic. Certainly, there are plenty of excellent restaurants that handle the exchange elegantly, with warmth and graciousness. But as long as the maître d’ is standing
behind a podium, a literal barrier between them and the person they are welcoming, the hospitality in that moment can never be more than reasonable. Contrast that with what happens
when you go to a friend’s house for dinner. They throw open the door, they look you directly in the eyes, and they welcome you by name. I couldn’t help but see an opportunity.
There was some skepticism the first time I sat down with the guest relations team and told them we were going to get rid of the podium at EMP. But if you explain the why along with
the what, you’ll be surprised how many of these impossible ideas your team can bring to life. Before long, when guests walked through our doors, instead of having to approach
someone who was looking at a screen, they’d be welcomed by name: “Good evening, Ms. Sun—and welcome to Eleven Madison Park.” I never tired of seeing the reaction on people’s faces
when they experienced this for the first time. Every night, the maître d’ would take the list of reservations and Google the names on it, creating a cheat sheet with photos for
each seating. If your photo had ever been put on the internet, we would find it— and if you still looked anything remotely like the person in that photo, you would be greeted by
name. After the seven thirty reservations were seated, the maître d’ would start studying the cheat sheet for the eight o’clock reservations. Full disclosure: there was still a
podium. It was just around the corner from the entrance, so you wouldn’t see it when you walked in. Behind that podium was the “anchor,” another employee, who was in touch with the
dining room and knew whether your table was ready or not. The anchor would communicate in sign language to the maître d’, who was effortlessly chatting you up while waiting for
instruction; if they signaled that your table was ready, a host would come over and bring you into the dining room. If it wasn’t quite ready, the anchor would use a different
signal, and the maître d’ would usher you into the bar to have a drink while you waited. None of this was rocket science, but it did require being willing to do whatever it took to
bring it to life. What did feel like rocket science (to us, at least, based on how challenging it was to execute) was that the maître d’ who greeted you was also the person who had
confirmed your reservation two days earlier. At most restaurants, your table is confirmed by a reservationist in an office, gone by the time guests arrive. But we had our maître
d’s confirm the reservations so that they could start building a relationship before the guests even set foot in the restaurant. So the maître d’ could say, “Ms. Sun, my name is
Justin; we spoke on the phone the other day. We’re so excited to have you with us tonight.” Walking into a fine-dining restaurant like EMP can be intimidating. Being immediately
greeted by someone you talked to on the phone a couple of days before made it much less so. And because the real point of those confirmation calls was to learn something about the
guest in advance of their arrival and to ask if they were celebrating a special occasion, Justin could also say, “Happy birthday, and thanks for celebrating it with us!” Obviously,
eliminating the podium added steps of service. And besides the Googling and all the nonverbal communication, it took a strategist working the schedule to ensure that the maître d’
who’d confirmed your reservation would always be working on the night you came in. For a lot of companies, these extra steps would have been a good reason not to add these
flourishes, but I had an Avis car rental tagline from an old commercial stuck in my head: “We try harder.” I have no idea whether that ad was a genuine reflection of the company’s
culture or some genius on Madison Avenue’s way to differentiate one nearly identical car rental service from another, but I thought about the phrase all the time. Isn’t that what
differentiates the good from the great? Being so committed to an idea that you’re willing to try harder, to go to unreasonable lengths in order to bring it to life? Removing the
transactional feeling from the beginning of the meal had such a transformational impact on the experience that I wanted to take it a step further and remove it from the end of the
meal as well. If we were now welcoming people more warmly than ever, I wanted our farewell to be just as personal. “I want to do a ticketless coat check,” I told JP Pullos, who was
running our front-door team at the time. “Okay. How?” “No idea! But you’ll come up with something brilliant,” I told him. A leader doesn’t have to know the details of every plan
when they have faith in the people who work for them. JP did figure it out—and indeed, it was brilliant. He reorganized the regular coat-check room to sort the coats by table
number and added an additional, smaller coat check—the “on-deck” coat check—by the door. During service, a host periodically passed through the dining room, taking note of where
people were in their meals so they could plan where they were going to seat the next group of reservations. With our new system, when the host spotted a table paying their check,
they’d send someone to transfer the coats from the big coatroom to the on-deck coatroom. By the time the table had finished paying and was heading to the front of the restaurant,
we’d be standing by the front door with their coats. No one was doing this then; very few restaurants do it now. Which is a shame, because it was one of my favorite moments of the
night. You’d watch guests approaching the door start to hunt in their pockets or bags for their coat check tags—where did I put that? Then they’d look up and recognize their own
coat. It was amazing to pull off a magic trick right at the end, blowing the guests’ minds one last time; I never got tired of seeing it. Hospitality Is a Dialogue, Not a Monologue
It is impossible to get a reservation at Rao’s. Rao’s, which opened in 1896 and serves homestyle Italian American food in Harlem, is a New York institution. And when I say it’s
impossible to get a reservation there, I mean it: they don’t take them. A select few people “own” tables, and you can’t eat there unless you’re invited by someone who does. After
years of asking everyone I knew, I finally managed to wrangle myself an invitation. The meal was amazing (the meatballs are some of the best I have ever had). And while the dining
experience was pretty removed from the one we were trying to provide, it made a big impression on me. There weren’t any menus at Rao’s; instead, a guy called Nicky the Vest pulled
a barstool up to our table and told us our options. We didn’t hear about the pastas until we’d picked our antipasti; we didn’t hear about meat until we’d picked our pastas. It was
a conversation—or felt like one, though you somehow always ended up eating what Nicky thought you should eat. I loved it. It was like going to my grandma’s house for dinner, and I
left convinced we should get rid of our menus altogether. After the evening’s wine was out of my system, I realized we weren’t ready for quite so radical a move. (Later, we would
be.) But I was entranced by the idea that ordering your meal could take the form of a back-and-forth exchange between the restaurant and the guest. Danny Meyer says that
hospitality is a dialogue, not a monologue. He meant it metaphorically, but I wanted to make the dialogue literal. For years, we’d offered both a prix fixe menu and a chef ’s
tasting menu. The prix fixe gave the guest control; the tasting menu afforded surprise. I wanted a less binary option. There was charm in the unexpectedness and flow—the
narrative—of a tasting menu, but it was also a directive, subjecting the diner to a monologue from the kitchen: “This is what you’re going to eat tonight.” As you may have gathered
by now, I like to be in control. That’s especially true at dinner, because I’m a bit of a picky eater: I don’t like fishy fish or organ meats. And as someone who loves food, I like
to determine not only what I don’t want to eat on a given night, but what I do. We came up with a new menu idea, which would encompass the best of both worlds. On a normal menu,
all your options are listed in their entirety: the beef comes with potato puree and chanterelle mushrooms. You decide exactly what you want, and you get exactly what you order.
With many tasting menus, on the other hand, there’s no menu at all; you find out what you’re going to be eating when the plate is put down in front of you. The beauty of the former
is control; the beauty of the latter is surprise. Our new menu captured both. We listed our dishes only by their principal ingredient; on a given night, say, your choice of entrée
might be between beef, duck, lobster, or cauliflower. You controlled which of those you ordered but got to enjoy the surprise of how the ingredient was prepared and served when it
was delivered. Daniel loved the new menu format because it gave him flexibility—if a vendor surprised him with a few boxes of gorgeous sorrel or special summer beans, he could
incorporate those without reprinting a hundred menus. I loved it because it necessitated a conversation. As Oliver Strand wrote in his aptly titled article in The New York Times
about the menu change, “At Eleven Madison Park, Fixing What Isn’t Broke”: “The menu is almost an abstraction. Rather than seducing you with luscious descriptions, it’s a reason—or
provocation—to talk to your server about what you feel like eating.” A few months after we launched the new menu, I had a meal at Momofuku Ssäm Bar, which encouraged me to push
this idea of dialogue and choice even further. There was a small box in the lower right-hand corner of Ssäm Bar’s menu that read: “No substitutions or special requests. We do not
serve vegetarian-friendly items.” Wait, what? I have nothing but admiration for what chefs do, and I know some substitutions will destroy the integrity of a dish. But from a
hospitality perspective, that blanket statement—no accommodations, no matter what—was shocking and went against everything I believed in. (It’s worth noting that in the years
since, Momofuku’s owner, David Chang, has become more flexible and one of the most hospitable chefs I know.) But that night, I couldn’t keep my eyes off that box and ended up
journaling about it over my nightly glass of red wine. How can a restaurant tell someone who doesn’t want meat that they have to have it if they want to eat there? What we were
doing with the new menu format was all well and good, as far as what the guest wanted—but were we doing enough to give the guest a voice about what they didn’t want? At the time
we, like every other restaurant, would ask the guest at the beginning of the meal if they had any allergies. But not killing your guests is table stakes; surely we could do better?
What if we also asked them if there were any ingredients they didn’t like? Or if there was anything they just weren’t in the mood to eat that night? Now that would be a proper
dialogue. It took a bit of convincing to get Daniel and the kitchen staff on board with this one, as they would have to do most of the heavy lifting, coming up with endless
variations on dishes they’d already perfected. If the chicken was served with asparagus and morels but the guest didn’t like mushrooms, the kitchen would need to have an alternate
but equally delicious preparation of the chicken prepped and on hand, just in case. It was the very definition of unreasonable. But Daniel could see how revolutionary the idea was,
if we could bring it to life. (I also pulled the “This is important to me” card.) We decided to give it a shot. And it nearly didn’t work at all. A couple of weeks after we’d
started asking diners about their preferences, not one single table had told us about an ingredient they didn’t like. I took a station to see if I could figure out why. There is,
by the way, no better way for a leader to figure out why an idea isn’t working—or how it can work better—than to walk a mile in the shoes of the people you’ve charged with
implementing that idea. In general, this is good practice. If you’re the CEO of a hotel chain, work the front desk at one of your hotels a couple of times a year; if you run an
airline, take a shift at the ticket desk, or serve drinks and pretzels in economy. Not ceremonially, either—do the job. I bet you’ll be surprised by what you learn; I always was.
My serving skills were a little rusty, and the people supporting me had to work harder than they would have if the team had been headed by a competent captain. But it took only a
few tables before I knew what the problem was. At the time, Andrew Zimmern and Anthony Bourdain were all over TV, eating still-beating cobra hearts, fetal ducks from unhatched
eggs, and soups made from silkworm larvae. Every high-end menu featured ingredients—treviso! ‘nduja! cardoon!—obscure enough that even a seasoned diner might need to Google them
under the table. If you were someone who cared about food, which most of our guests were, the trend was to eat widely and indiscriminately. So it wasn’t cool to admit that the
texture of eggplant or caviar grossed you out or that you hated beets because your mom had served the slimy ones from the can. And if you weren’t going to confess those things to
your nearest and dearest, you certainly weren’t going to unburden yourself to the captain at a four-star restaurant. So the next time I asked the question, I made my own (true)
confession: I told the guests how I feel about sea urchin. Sea urchin is rare and difficult to source. It is a delicacy many sophisticated eaters love: creamy and decadent, beloved
by chefs. And the mere thought of it makes me want to puke. Sure enough, once I’d come clean, the guy in seat two said, “Actually, I’m not crazy about oysters,” and his wife said,
“Yeah, I hate celery.” It wasn’t until I’d shown myself to be vulnerable that the people I was serving allowed me to see their vulnerability. Is it an expression of vulnerability
to say you don’t like an ingredient? I think it is—and the more open you demonstrate yourself to be, the more likely people are to be open with you. In that moment, for me, the new
menu format was a true success. We’d turned what had been a one-way conversation into a genuine exchange. Treat Everyone Like a VIP Personal training sessions with a celebrity
trainer. A three-night stay at a lighthouse on the coast of Sweden. Twenty-five thousand dollars’ worth of services from a Park Avenue dermatologist. A lifetime supply of luxury
face cream. A Tiffany crystal-studded cat collar. A year of complimentary Audi rentals. A ten-day walking tour of Japan. We weren’t the first people to be unreasonable in our
approach to hospitality, but that kind of over-the-top service had always been limited to a select few: celebrities, politicians, the wealthy and elite. Think of the exorbitant
gift bags Oscar nominees famously get every year. (See partial list above.) For us, Unreasonable Hospitality meant providing thoughtful, high- touch gestures for every one of our
guests. Our first pass at leveling the playing field came in our reimagining of the kitchen tour. Many fine-dining restaurants have chef ’s tables, but it had always bugged me that
only one table got to experience a meal at that table every night; even at EMP, visits to the kitchen had always been reserved for the biggest VIPs. But if we believed holistically
in the concept of Unreasonable Hospitality, we needed the most gracious elements of the experience to be available to everyone. We created a nook in our kitchen with an expansive
view of the thirty precision-trained cooks working with laser focus and in near silence in our enormous, immaculate kitchen, and put a chef ’s table in that nook. But our chef ’s
table had no chairs; our guests stood while enjoying a single course. Because it was only a single course, we could offer that special experience to lots of people—everyone who
showed interest in experiencing it. (This course was neutral—never a dessert—so it could happen at any point in the meal; the first one we did was a liquid nitrogen cocktail.) We
even hired someone whose only job was to give those tours. Not everyone wanted to see the kitchen; some people had come to the restaurant to negotiate a deal, or to stare
passionately into each other’s eyes, or simply to eat—and the staff was tuned in enough to leave those folks alone. But for everyone else—whether you were Jay-Z and Beyoncé, or a
couple who had saved up so you could experience a four-star restaurant for the first time, the experience was yours to have. What’s the Hospitality Solution? The very end of the
meal is always precarious from a hospitality perspective. First of all, it’s time to pay, and that’s never fun. The cold, hard reality of those numbers on a check can throw cold
water on the magical vibe you’ve built over the course of the evening. And the timing is hard to get right. When some guests are ready to leave, they’re ready to leave. People get
impatient (I get impatient!) if the process of getting the check, paying it, and getting out the door takes too long. But at the same time, you can never put the check down before
the guest has asked for it, because that gives them the feeling you’re trying to rush them out. At EMP, we used hospitality to solve both potential problems. We didn’t wait for the
guest to ask for the check. Instead, at the end of their meal, we’d bring the bill over and drop it off—along with an entire bottle of cognac. We’d pour everyone at the table a
splash and leave the full bottle on the table: “Please, help yourself to as much as you like, with our compliments. And when you’re ready, your check is right here.” People were
delighted by this. The ability to pour for themselves felt even more luxurious and surprising to them after a three-hour meal where they hadn’t had to lift a finger, and that was
the feeling I was trying to replicate: the moment, at the end of a dinner party, when a guest leans forward, grabs the mostly empty bottle of wine left on the table, and tops off
everyone’s glass. But more important, there’s no way a person who has just been given a full bottle of free booze can feel like they’re being rushed out. And yet, at the same time,
the check was right there whenever they were ready for it. We no longer had to “drop the check” on one of our guests, and they would never have to ask for it again. This is a
hospitality solution: a problem that we solved not by sneakily chipping away at the service we were offering but by blowing it out in the opposite direction—by giving more, not
less. Too often, when we’re faced with a pernicious problem in our businesses, we fall back on the tried-and-true: push harder, be more efficient, cut back. Especially when the
problems are nagging ones that erode the bottom line or those that persist because our organizations rely on humans and all their wonderful and fallible ways. Imagine, though, that
instead of resorting to one of these fallback positions, you asked yourself: What is the hospitality solution? What if you forced yourself to be creative, to develop a solution
that worked because of—not in spite of—your dedication to generosity and extraordinary service? These are almost always harder to execute, and coming up with them will definitely
call on your creative side. But they’re almost always a win. If a stumble at the end of a meal can undo all the goodwill a restaurant has earned in the three hours preceding it,
then a gorgeous, gracious gesture at the end can have the opposite effect. (This is true in every service industry.) And while dropping off a full bottle of expensive booze at
every table seemed like an unreasonably extravagant gesture, it was actually cost- effective. After an elaborate multicourse dinner (and usually plenty of wine), few people were
interested in drinking more than a sip of that cognac. Yet the feeling of abundance was there. CHAPT ER 18 IMPROVISATIONAL HOSPITALITY ONE AFTERNOON, I WAS CLEARING the appetizer
plates from a four-top of Europeans headed straight to the airport after their meal. A quick aside: there’s nothing more flattering than a guest walking into the restaurant with
luggage. It means they’ve chosen you to be either their first or last meal in New York—their first or last memory of the city. It’s an enormous compliment, and a responsibility I
don’t take lightly. Another aside: I bussed a lot of tables when I was general manager. At that point, it didn’t make sense for me to take an order; the captains and sommeliers
were more qualified to walk guests through the food on the menu and to offer suggestions for wine. Bussing tables showed the team I was there to help and gave me a way to check in
with tables without worrying they’d ask a question I didn’t have a good answer for. Anyway! As I was clearing this particular table, I overheard the four guests crowing about the
culinary adventures they’d had in New York: “We’ve been everywhere! Daniel, Per Se, Momofuku, now Eleven Madison Park. The only thing we didn’t eat was a street hot dog.” If you’d
been in the dining room that day, you’d have seen an animated bulb appear over my head, like in a cartoon. I dropped the dirty dishes off in the kitchen and ran out to buy a hot
dog from Abraham, who manned the Sabrett’s cart on our corner. Then the hard part: I brought the hot dog back to the kitchen and asked Daniel to plate it. He looked at me like I’d
gone crazy. I was always trying to push the boundaries, but serving what New Yorkers call a dirty-water dog at a four- star restaurant? I held my ground and told him to trust
me—that it was important to me—and he finally agreed to cut the hot dog into four perfect pieces, adding a swoosh of mustard, a swoosh of ketchup, and perfect quenelles of
sauerkraut and relish to each plate. Before we brought out their final savory course, I admitted to the guests that I’d been eavesdropping: “We’re thrilled you chose us for your
last meal in New York, but we didn’t want you to go home with any culinary regrets,” I said, as the kitchen servers set the artistically plated hot dog sections down at each place.
They freaked out. I had given away thousands of dishes, and many, many (many) thousands of dollars’ worth of food by that point in my career, and yet I can confidently say that
nobody had ever responded the way that table responded to that hot dog. In fact, before they left, each person at the table told me it was the highlight not only of the meal, but
of their trip to New York. They’d be telling the story for the rest of their lives. Athletes go to the tape when they’ve had a bad game, to see what they can fix. They don’t often
go to the tape when they’ve had a great game— but that’s how you celebrate and hold on to what you did well. So I started talking to the staff in pre-meal about the hot dog: What
had made the gift so good? And what about it could we systemize? Find the Legend One of Spago’s best regulars ate lunch there five days a week. Physically, he was a huge man, and
ordinary restaurant chairs can be uncomfortable for someone that big. So when they opened the new Spago in Beverly Hills, Barbara Lazaroff, Wolfgang Puck’s wife at the time and a
tremendous creative force in the company, asked the regular’s wife to secretly photograph and measure his favorite chair at home. She then had a furniture maker replicate it and
upholster the new chair in the house fabric. This gesture made an impression on me—and not just because it was my job to move this enormous custom-made chair from the back of the
restaurant to the regular’s table every single morning the summer I worked there. Though I wasn’t using this language at the time, I can say now that I loved that gesture because
it was unreasonable. I still get a kick out of imagining the look on the regular’s face the first time he saw his chair. Having a piece of furniture custom-made for a regular goes
way above and beyond ordinary service; it is extreme thoughtfulness and inclusion and generosity. More important, though, it’s one-off hospitality—the same reason the hot dog was a
hit. It’s fun to hear a band play the songs you already love, but it’s even more wonderful when they start improvising and you know that only the people in this room, on this
night, will ever hear this particular version. (This is why Grateful Dead fans trade bootleg copies of their favorite Red Rocks shows; no two are alike.) And I wanted to improvise,
one guest at a time. Everyone at our restaurant on a given night was sharing a unique experience—but what if everyone in the restaurant could have their own unique experience? With
