of each. The place would be lush and luxurious but also democratic and awesome and easy and connective and loud and vibrant and loose and alive. And we were going to be as
intentional in designing it as the Stones had been when they were studying the blues. Once again, we were creating a place we’d want to go. Which meant an à la carte menu of
technically perfect food and an exceptional, deep wine list, served by a young, high-energy staff in a fantastic New York space with a great playlist, played loud. If Eleven
Madison Park was the place we’d choose to celebrate a special occasion (or when the dinner was the special occasion), the NoMad was where we’d go when it was time for an incredible
night out. For Daniel and me as businesspeople, and for us as a company, opening the NoMad was a huge leap forward, and came with all the challenges that haunt businesses during
periods of growth and expansion. We got some stuff wrong, but we did a lot right—in large part because we went to great lengths to bring over the culture of hospitality we’d
created at Eleven Madison Park. It’s impossible to overestimate how important it was for our new company for us to get the NoMad right. Plenty of bands have one hit, but if your
sophomore album is a flop, you’re a one-hit wonder. We wanted to be the Beatles, Nirvana, the Rolling Stones—evergreen, not poor Gary Wright of “Dream Weaver” fame. And in New York
City, the paper of record plays an outsize role in determining which category you’ll fall into, so nothing was more crucial than making sure the first review of the NoMad in The
New York Times was a good one. The pressure was intense. To help focus and filter our ideas, I created a fictional character—a hedonistic, fifty-three-year-old gourmand and music
lover, living and breaking hearts in the South of France—so we could design the public spaces of the NoMad as if they were rooms in his private home. We then held focused meetings
to brainstorm all the elements that would make the place unique. Invariably, in every new group, someone would say, “I’m just not creative.” Which would lead to my pulling them
aside later to explain: that’s not how creativity works. To paraphrase the marketing guru Seth Godin, creativity is a practice. Even great creative minds like Sir Paul McCartney,
Godin explains, have a system to help them be creative, to hone their ideas. In McCartney’s case, time pressure, a regular schedule, and being comfortable with using a less-
than-perfect word or musical phrase until he came up with a better one were all necessary for him to get to songs that are still beloved, fifty years later. Your practice may be
different—and none of us is Paul McCartney— but it’s time we dispel the myth that creativity must be spontaneous and is limited to geniuses. Creativity is an active process, not a
passive one. When we were designing the NoMad, the meetings we held were structured but also collaborative and exploratory. We were disciplined and intentional about creating a
space where we could dream freely, which meant leaving every other concern at the door so we could give ourselves over to the process. In those rooms, it was safe to chase a
seemingly silly idea that might just flower into a great one. There were no bad ideas (at least not at first), and no shame in presenting the earliest, half-formed kernel of one in
the hopes that someone else might complete the thought— or use it as a springboard to something better. Even the Beatles were constantly contributing to one another’s songs. Once
again, we were harnessing the collective brilliance of the team, playing off one another so effectively that in many cases, when I was later asked, “Whose idea was that?” I
honestly didn’t know. Maya Angelou famously said, “You can’t use up creativity. The more you use, the more you have.” The more space we gave ourselves to dream, and the more trust
we gave one another, the better we got. On the nights we spent hours debating how the now-famous chicken for two would be served, I was grateful that my experience at EMP had
helped me to reframe my fanatical attention to detail as a superpower. (We presented the whole bird on a copper platter, carved the breast, and served a fricassee of the dark meat
on another plate, family-style.) And since the NoMad would be open for breakfast, I spent an unreasonable amount of time searching for the perfect coffeepot. And every minute was
worth it when I found the perfect one, a nod to the triangular Turkish cezve, made by Mauviel, the French copper cookware specialists. It was clear to me right from the beginning
that the library bar was going to be the beating heart of the hotel, so I oversaw every aspect of its design and execution. I drove a U-Haul to the massive Brimfield Antique Flea
Market so I could handpick every chair before redoing them in the NoMad fabrics. And while it’s common to purchase used books by the yard for a decorative library, there was no way
we were going to fill our shelves with a generic jumble of old law textbooks and forgotten novels. In this, as with everything, we had to find our follow-through. So we asked our
book curator to select books as if they were for our fictional character’s library, which is how we ended up with sections on New York history, food and wine, music—and the occult.
As Walt Disney said, people can feel perfection. In the spirit of surprise and delight, we hid flasks of whiskey in hollowed volumes scattered throughout. If you found one of these
real-life Easter eggs, it was yours to enjoy. Jump-start the Culture The majority of the opening management team at the NoMad came from Eleven Madison Park. That was deliberate.
Because our plan had been to bring seasoned people to the new restaurant, we started staffing up at Eleven Madison Park a few months before. I thought of those transplants from EMP
as sourdough starter: not only would we have the benefit of their impeccable technical training, but they’d seed the new spot with our culture. They’d communicate, through words
and their actions, everything that we stood for and believed in. Their passion and knowledge and all the values they’d accrued by watching the seasons pass from within the walls of
Eleven Madison Park would infect everyone else we hired. As you grow, you can’t lose the very thing that gave you the opportunity to grow. When you consider expanding, in any form,
you have to first stop and identify what makes your culture unique and decide in advance to protect whatever that is. For us, that was our culture of Unreasonable Hospitality—going
above and beyond, doing more, always giving our guests more than they expected. And a culture depends on the people who bring it to life every day; if we got that part right, the
other pieces would fall into place. The only major hire we made from outside the company was the general manager, Jeff Tascarella. There were good reasons for us to make an
exception in his case. Jeff had already been a general manager, and I wanted someone who’d been a boss before; he also had experience running a hotel restaurant, which I most
certainly did not. Because the NoMad would be a little louder and looser than Eleven Madison Park, we needed someone with experience at a high-volume restaurant celebrated for its
quality, and Jeff had run Scarpetta, a bustling, beloved, and excellent three-star restaurant in the Meatpacking District. Lastly, we wanted the NoMad to be cool—and Jeff was one
of the coolest guys I knew. Jeff became a huge part of the NoMad’s success. Still, it’s a measure of how important I thought it was to foster our culture by promoting from within
that this was one of the only times in my tenure at the company that we ever hired a general manager from outside. We took training very seriously in the run-up to opening the
NoMad. Our budget for education was outrageous, according to the conventional wisdom, but I was betting the enormous amounts of time and energy and money we were spending would
turn out to be a good investment. I’m always surprised when people spend a fortune on a new project, then skimp on training the people charged with bringing that project to life—a
perfect example of what it means to be “penny-wise, pound-foolish.” By the time the doors opened, the hundred and fifty people on our dining room team had been alternating between
classroom trainings and practical stages on the floor for weeks. They knew every wine by the glass, every dish, every service point. More important, they’d gotten a significant
dose of our culture, and right from the source—either from me or from EMP’s senior leadership. Even EMP team members who hadn’t come over to the NoMad had a hand in these
trainings. Prior to the opening, we printed out hundreds of pages of notes from the pre-meal speeches I’d given over the past three years and asked the captains and managers at
Eleven Madison Park to pick out concepts that had resonated the most with them—and the ones that had stuck, the ones that had made the most lasting impression, on them and on the
team as a whole. Compiling those ideas into a book forced us to put words to what we stood for. The experience was so positive I now think every company, no matter the size, should
spend a few weeks hashing out every one of their core values and committing them to paper. At the beginning, the Field Manual took the form of bound photocopies, but a couple of
years later, we hired a designer and had a little red book printed, which would allow us to welcome our new employees with the same warmth and energy that we welcomed our guests.
Marry Up It was review season again. The next six months passed in a blur until the night we saw Pete Wells, the New York Times food critic who had taken over from Frank Bruni,
walk into the NoMad’s dining room. The review gauntlet was no less stressful than previous ones had been. It was impossible to forget that the stakes were brutally high, but we put
everything we had into it and applied every lesson we’d learned along the way. Thankfully, the process was short; just a few weeks later, in June 2012, the NoMad got three stars
from The New York Times. The review was titled “A Stellar Band Rearranges Its Hits.” In it, Wells noted that we could have taken a more predictable and familiar route instead of
the one we chose, which he said was “something rather novel and wonderful.” As many great reviews as we’d gotten at Eleven Madison Park, I never openly wept reading one like I did
that night. Those tears were a combination of joy, relief, and pride. Our progress at EMP had been gradual; we’d steered an existing restaurant into becoming another kind of
restaurant, and the marginal gains we’d made had been so incremental they felt inevitable. The NoMad was different; we’d conceived it from the ground up. To make it happen, we’d
taken a culture that we had evolved slowly and organically at EMP and imposed it on a completely new operation. Obviously, a huge celebration with our team was in the cards that
night. But Chef Magnus Nilsson of Sweden’s Fäviken, a friend we’d made at that first, humiliating 50 Best, was doing a cookbook event at a rooftop garden called the Brooklyn
Grange. So we went out quickly, to welcome him to New York. This detour is only worth mentioning because it was the first time I met Christina Tosi, who was arriving just as I was
leaving. Though we’d never met, I’d had a crush on her for years. She was the pastry chef and owner of Milk Bar, celebrated around the world for Cereal Milk soft serve and Compost
Cookies and her creative, nostalgic, irreverent approach to dessert. I knew she’d taken a postage-stamp-size storefront next to Momufuku Ssäm Bar and built it into one of the most
beloved brands in the country; I also knew she was one of the most beautiful women I’d ever seen. And that night, with the three-star New York Times review under my arm and a
little swagger to spare as a result, I walked right up to her and introduced myself. We talked for only a minute—which was still long enough for me to get a glimpse of how
generous, brilliant, and hilariously funny she was. She knew who I was, too, though after we were married, she admitted she’d been a little surprised to discover that the guy
behind Eleven Madison Park was a normal person, not some stuck-up fancy-pants. Then I got into a cab and headed back to the hotel to toast my team. It was a good night. If it’s not
clear, the lesson here is this: Marry someone better than you. My partnership with Daniel made me a better restaurateur. My partnership with Christina has made me a better leader
and better man. Leaders Say Sorry In spite of all the thoughtfulness we put into translating and preserving our culture, in those first months the NoMad was open I made one of the
biggest mistakes of my career. When we agreed to do the NoMad, I looked at my team at Eleven Madison Park and didn’t see anyone ready to replace me as general manager. I had no
desire to hire from outside; we believed too strongly in our culture of promoting from within. But since there wasn’t anyone ready to do the job, I decided I would still act as GM
at Eleven Madison Park while simultaneously opening the NoMad. Can you guess how this ends? If you’ve ever launched a new business, you know there aren’t enough hours in the day.
For months, I was at the NoMad pretty much every minute I was awake (and, since it was a hotel, quite a few non-waking ones, too). Eleven Madison Park was only a few blocks away,
but the restaurant was easy to neglect because the team in place had been there a long time and were operating at the highest level. In fact, that year, we’d moved up to number
twenty-four on the 50 Best list—proof that the restaurant was running beautifully and the emphasis we’d put on hospitality was succeeding with our guests. However, even the most
flawless and collaborative organization needs a boss. Discussion and input are wonderful, but somebody needs to be on site to make decisions. If there’s nobody to make the call,
problems pile up: forward progress stalls completely, or random people step into the breach, take responsibility for a decision, and then face resentment from their peers—“Who died
and made you president?” I’d left the restaurant in limbo, and morale was suffering. Thankfully, there were people close enough to me to tell me the truth. I had a number of
conversations with senior staff, who told me there was ambiguity where there shouldn’t have been any: “Nobody’s making decisions, and when someone does step up, they’re accused of
making a power grab. You have to name a GM, Will.” But all I heard was: You need to work harder. You’re not here and you need to be, so you better figure out a way to shoehorn an
extra hour into the day so you can do your new job and this one, too. No matter how guilty I felt, I was able to rationalize it away. “How bad could it be, when our guests were so
happy?” What I didn’t understand was that a solid culture can stand up to some degree of abuse before the wear begins to show. Even if morale slips significantly, the guests won’t
feel it right away. Our team had a lot of love for EMP, and they took enormous personal and professional pride in providing spectacular hospitality. They were compartmentalizing,
and doing a good job of it. But with enough drips, even the hardest rock is subject to erosion over time. Finally, a longtime captain named Sheryl Heefner asked for a meeting with
me. Sheryl was one of the best people on the team and one of my ride-or-dies—I trusted her implicitly. The approach she took with me was effective precisely because she didn’t tell
me I was falling short. Instead, she held up a mirror, so I could see for myself where I’d gone wrong. And while Sheryl wasn’t ordinarily an emotional person, she did get upset
describing the damage I was doing to the restaurant by refusing to name a successor. I remember her asking, “Do you honestly not believe that a single person on our team is up to
the task? You tell us there’s nothing more important than being able to trust one another—but how are we supposed to believe that, when you won’t trust anyone but yourself to do
this job?” There’s nothing more devastating than a parent saying, “I’m not mad; I’m disappointed.” That was what Sheryl was saying, and I heard it. And as much as her words stung,
you better believe I thanked her for coming to me. My dad says, “Keep your eyes peeled,” which means: listen, look, notice, learn; make sure you’re not tumbling through life. Most
important: Be aware when an item of real import is put in front of you. That meeting with Sheryl was one of those moments. We were at a totally pivotal moment as a company, and I
was screwing it up. I’d spent years telling people not to make themselves irreplaceable because that meant we couldn’t promote them, but I hadn’t had the wherewithal to see when my
own role needed to change. Worse, I’d betrayed one of our company’s most closely held values. After screaming from the mountaintops about the importance of trusting the team, when
it came time for me to walk the walk, I took a seat. I knew immediately what I had to do—it was what I should have done the moment we signed the deal to make the NoMad a reality. I
called a meeting with Kirk Kelewae, who had taken ownership of the beer program years before. He’d worked his way up from kitchen server to manager, and that day, I promoted him to
GM. After my private meeting with Kirk, I called an all-staff meeting and apologized to everyone in the room. “This is the first time I’ve grown a company,” I told them, “and this
isn’t the last mistake I’m going to make. But this was a big one.” I had withheld the trust I’d been after them for years to show one another, and I’d damaged the culture we’d
worked so hard to grow as a result. After I apologized, I announced that Kirk would be their new GM. There were people in the room who probably would have preferred I’d said their
name, but a decision had been made, and that made all the difference. The tension that had been growing vanished like the air from a popped balloon. There is such power when a
leader can admit to their mistakes and apologize for them. The idea that you’re not going to make any errors is criminally stupid—as is the idea that if you don’t own up to an
error, nobody will notice you’ve made one. As hard as it is to hold yourself accountable publicly, it strengthens the bond between you and your team, because if you’re willing to
stand up and criticize yourself, people will always be more willing to receive criticism from you. The experience was a beautiful example of the power of vulnerability and its
importance in leadership. I hadn’t trusted anyone else to be the general manager of EMP because I didn’t think anyone would do the job as well as I was doing it—and, in fairness, I
was probably right. Kirk wasn’t ready to be a general manager yet, just as I hadn’t been ready to be a general manager when I was given the same job at MoMA. (Apparently, I wasn’t
ready to be an owner, either.) Sometimes the best time to promote people is before they are ready. So long as they are hungry, they will work even harder to prove that you made the
right decision. Kirk grew into the job, just as he’d grown into running the beer program and every other position he’d held with us. And it was hugely meaningful for everyone else
who worked there to see that the team was run by a guy who’d started out as a kitchen server. We’d said there were no limits, and we’d meant it. Now everyone could see that it was
true. No Guest Left Behind The NoMad was a hit, right out of the gate. Whatever the question was, the NoMad was the answer. We had breakfast regulars, lunch regulars, dinner
regulars, late-night cocktail bar regulars—some days, those were the same people. It was exactly how we’d hoped people would use the different spaces we’d created. And the NoMad
gave our company another gift, one that we hadn’t foreseen. As EMP continued climbing up the 50 Best list, our menu had become more complex, more involved, and more intricate, and
our presentations had become more theatrical. A meal with us was increasingly lengthy, extensive, over-the-top—a production. With these changes, it had become difficult for our
regulars; how many times a week can someone have a four-hour-long meal? But with the NoMad just down the way, we could take the next step at EMP without deserting those beloved
regulars; the NoMad gave them somewhere to go more regularly. Many of the dishes on the NoMad’s menu had once been EMP’s greatest hits, and there would be lots of familiar faces
there; the attention to service would be recognizable, if slightly less dressed-up. The hotel’s flexibility and relative informality meant that you could both schedule a breakfast
meeting there and close out a great night with one last drink. And EMP would always be there for them on those nights when only a total luxury blowout dinner would do. Sometimes,
you outgrow your regulars; that’s inevitable for any evolving organization. But we didn’t want to fire ours; we wanted to keep them as part of our family. If you call your team
your family, you need to invest in them and give them opportunities to grow with you and your organization, and you should extend the same courtesy to your most valued customers.
Instead of cannibalizing our brand, the NoMad extended it. Meanwhile, back at EMP, there was no longer anything holding us back . . . or so we thought. CHAPT ER 20 BACK TO BASICS
THROUGHOUT THE YEARS that we were climbing through the ranks of the 50 Best list, Daniel and I were traveling to food and wine conferences and culinary events all over the world.
And any time we went to a new city, we’d take a night to go see what our competition was up to. We found ourselves deeply inspired by every one of the restaurants on the list. At
Narisawa in Japan, while we enjoyed our hors d’oeuvres, proofed bread dough baked tableside in a screaming-hot stoneware bowl, showcasing an ancient and elemental process that
usually took place behind the scenes. It became one of the most delicious bites of our meal. At Fäviken in Sweden, instead of twenty servers describing twenty different dishes to
twenty different tables, our friend Magnus came out from the kitchen, clapped his hands, and announced the next course, which everyone in the dining room then ate at the same time,
like guests at a dinner party in his home. At Mugaritz in Spain, we pounded spices and seeds for soup in an iron bowl with a pestle. Then a captain invited us to run the pestle
around the edge as if it were a Tibetan singing bowl, and for a breathtakingly beautiful moment, the entire dining room came together in community to create music. At Alinea in
Chicago, pastry chefs brought ingredients for dessert into the dining room, artfully scattering chocolate, custards, pralines, pieces of cake, and fresh berries across a silicone
tablecloth—Kandinsky, if his medium had been sugar. Everyone else on earth looked at a table and saw a table; Chef Grant Achatz looked at a table and saw a plate. These crescendos
were both thoughtful and beautiful. They provided these already extraordinary meals with an exclamation point within the experience, an unforgettable moment that was as delicious
to recount weeks later as it had been to eat. And they reinforced why the 50 Best list had been so good for our industry. The best restaurants in the world were encouraging and
inspiring one another to ever-greater heights when they might instead have become complacent. The friendly competition and exchange of ideas pushed the whole profession forward. We
felt confident in the crescendos we’d added to the experience of dining at EMP; what was missing now was a sense of place. It was the age of Noma, and every one of the restaurants
at the top of the list was serving an experience that was so deeply specific to where they were, the meal wouldn’t make sense anywhere else. This felt especially important in an
increasingly globalized and homogenous world where you could travel sixteen hours on a plane, then walk down a luxury row virtually identical to the one in the city you’d left
behind. Plus, we saw a real opportunity. Our restaurant was in New York—not only the birthplace of so much art and music and industry (and so many food traditions), but an
important and underrecognized agricultural area. And while each of the best fine-dining restaurants in New York did have a strong sense of place, the places they were celebrating
weren’t New York, but Japan, and Italy, and France. So when EMP made it to number ten on the 50 Best list in 2012, we were resolved to explore what it meant to be a restaurant of,
from, and about New York. We threw ourselves into research and turned up such a wealth of inspiration that we abandoned our new menu format (and, with it, the diner’s ability to
choose what they would eat). We adopted a straight tasting menu with a New York theme, to ensure that everyone who ate with us would experience all the things we were excited
about. The meal began with a savory take on the iconic black-and-white cookie and ended with chocolate-covered pretzels. There was sturgeon smoked at the table under a glass dome.
We learned that the potato chip had been invented in New York, so we made our own and had custom chip bags printed, so expensive I practically had to hide the bill from myself.
(Hey, 95/5.) Tartare has roots in New York City, so we used New York carrots— grown in the nutrient-rich mud that upstate farmers call “black muck”—to make carrot tartare. And
instead of leaving a bottle of cognac on the table at the end of the meal, our gift was a custom-labeled applejack from Laird’s, the first licensed distillery in the area, dating
back to 1780. Our cheese course became a Central Park picnic. We commissioned Ithaca Beer Company to make a Picnic Ale, made pretzels with that beer, and partnered with the iconic
New York store Murray’s Cheese to make a cheese washed in it. The course was served in picnic baskets made in upstate New York, on porcelain plates that looked like paper made by a
Brooklyn artist named Virginia Sin. Like many a wide-eyed tourist, I’d been fleeced by a three-card-monte dealer in Times Square when I was a kid coming in from Westchester to meet
my dad at work. I wanted to incorporate a little of that old-school grittiness and some sleight of hand into the experience of dining with us— which led to my meeting with a team
of magicians to create a trick where you picked the main ingredient in your dessert by choosing a card, though a chocolate flavored with that ingredient was already secretly on the
table. (A sweeter ending than losing your allowance to a con man, for sure.) An aside: the experience of coming up with the magic trick was fascinating. I had reached out to a
company called theory11 because I wanted them to make us a custom deck of cards. But the owner, Jonathan Bayme, showed up for our first meeting with the magician Dan White, so I
wasn’t surprised when he suggested a magic trick instead. I was immediately intrigued. I’d talked so much to the team about our responsibility to create magic in a world that needs
more of it that the chance to approach this literally was too good not to consider. Especially when, after a couple of hours of brainstorming, Dan White blew my mind by describing
the trick we ended up using. My jaw dropped. “That’s incredible! But how would we do it?” Dan shook his head. “Oh, I have no idea. We’ll have to figure it out.” I loved that—how
unfazed he was to not know and how confident he was that we’d figure it out. Too many people approach creative brainstorming by taking what’s practical into consideration way too
early in the process. Working with Jonathan and Dan reinforced what I’d always believed: Start with what you want to achieve, instead of limiting yourself to what’s realistic or
sustainable. Or, as I like to say, don’t ruin a story with the facts. Eventually, you’ll reverse engineer your great idea and figure out what’s possible and cost-effective and all
the other boring grown-up stuff. But you should start with what you want to achieve. (When Dan heard the title of this book, he shared this wildly appropriate quote from Teller,
the silent half of the famed magic duo Penn and Teller: “Sometimes magic is just someone spending more time on something than anyone else might reasonably expect.” ) We also
introduced a new, much longer mission statement for the team, complete with a New York City subway map–inspired graphic. This new statement included everything we were striving to
embody: to be a New York restaurant, run equally by the kitchen and the dining room; to carry ourselves in a way that was genuine and good; to always be learning and leading; to
balance the classic and the contemporary; to take risks in pursuit of reinvention; and to create a culture of family and fun. Finally, we made our goal four Michelin stars to match
the number of leaves in our logo, even though Michelin didn’t even give four stars! When the new menu debuted, I wanted every table to understand the rich history and the wealth of
stories behind every course on the new menu. Not wanting to leave any part to chance or discretion, I wrote exactly what I wanted the captains to say, had them memorize it, and
drilled them over and over and over again. We introduced the new menu on a Tuesday in September 2012. Four days later, The New York Times food critic Pete Wells came in for lunch.
It was a shock to see him; usually, they give you a minute or two to settle in after a big change. But I was able to exhale when I saw he’d ended up in Natasha McIrvin’s section.
Natasha was, without question, one of our best captains—exceptionally talented, dedicated to excellence in all things, and unflappable even under intense pressure. I knew she’d get
the story we were telling just right. On his way out the door—I was trying to be unobtrusive, futzing around in a corner next to the bar—Pete Wells looked me right in the eyes and
nodded. That was deeply unusual: the critic and the restaurateur never acknowledge each other. I took it as a sign that we’d crushed it. So you can imagine my surprise when, just a
few days later, the Times published the article he’d written—a scathing takedown titled “Talking All Around the Food: At the Reinvented Eleven Madison Park, the Words Fail the
Dishes.” I’ll spare you, but it included such descriptive gems as: “stilted,” “bloat,” and this knockout punch, my personal favorite: “By the end of the four hours, I felt as if
I’d gone to a Seder hosted by Presbyterians.” The article was so awful that in their own gleeful piece about it (that’s right: it was so bad, there were schadenfreude-y think
pieces written about how bad it was), Eater dubbed him “Pete ‘The Punisher’ Wells.” And he might as well have addressed it directly to me. He didn’t love everything he ate, but he
loved a lot of it. The problem was what he called “the speeches.” It was deeply humiliating. And there was nothing I was less excited for than to stand up and confess that my bad
decisions had gotten us this savage review. In moments like this, in an effort to not look bad in front of their team, leaders tend to brush mistakes under the rug, foolishly
hoping that everyone will forget they’ve happened. Instead, I once again stood up in pre-meal to take responsibility and apologize. There was a little bit of good news, though. The
piece wasn’t a true review with stars, which might have devastated the business, but a “Critic’s Notebook”—the critical equivalent of a warning shot. And it did exactly what it was
intended to do: it allowed me to see the error of my ways and course-correct. After some soul searching, I realized that in introducing the New York menu, I’d made two mistakes.
One I don’t regret making, though we fixed it anyway. The other I do. The first mistake was going too far. (That’s the one I don’t regret.) Yes, part of that exuberance was a
show-offy “Look what we can do!” But pushing the limits is also an unavoidable part of the creative process. If you don’t explore the outer perimeter, how else will you know where
the line is? A lot of those ideas were good; if we hadn’t given ourselves the freedom to investigate them, we would never have known which of them to keep. That mistake—trying to
do too much—was easy to fix. We didn’t change everything; we knew we couldn’t be all things to all people. We kept the magic trick, because we could see, every night, that people
loved it; it was a crescendo they’d still be talking about weeks, even years, later. But we did get rid of a lot of the speeches. And the potato chip course, which—painfully—meant
recycling those expensive bags. The second mistake I’d made was more serious. I’d wanted to make sure every idea we had was communicated properly, so I’d insisted the team learn a
spiel. I’d made them performers, ruling out any possibility of a real, quality conversation between them and the guests. Of course the experience had felt inauthentic to Wells;
there had been no room for Natasha to connect with him. I had taken away her ability to be herself at the table. Not every guest wanted a history lesson during their dinner. Many
were charmed and wanted to engage with us. But some people were there to talk to their companions or to eat; they wanted us to drop off their food and leave them alone. I had
stripped the team of their authority to read the table and deliver an appropriate level of detail—to tailor the service experience to the guest. In my pursuit of a sense of place,
I’d actually made the meal less hospitable. Worse, it was essentially the same mistake I’d made the year before, when I’d hesitated to promote a general manager. Once again, the
guy known for talking about how much he trusted his team had acted as if he didn’t trust them at all. In truth, I’m not surprised I made this mistake—and I’m almost certain I’ll
make it again in the future. My compulsive attention to detail is one of my superpowers; it’s how I take aim at perfection. But that tendency also means I’m always walking a
tightrope between my desire to guarantee excellence by controlling everything and knowing I want to create an environment of empowerment and collaboration and trust among the
people who work for me. Like excellence and hospitality, these two qualities—control and trust—are not friends. I like to think I gain awareness every time I make this mistake. I
have surrounded myself with people I trust, who tell me when it’s time to back off. But I’m pretty sure managing the tension between these two is an issue I will struggle with for
the rest of my career. All I can do is stay aware, so my superpower doesn’t turn into my villain origin story. And when I do (inevitably) screw up, I need to fix the mistake
quickly and with as little ego as possible. I returned to trusting people on the team to introduce the menu in the way they saw fit and to deliver an appropriate level of
information for their tables. Meanwhile, we kept inching up the 50 Best list. In 2013 (despite the Presbyterian Seder), we moved up to number five. In 2014, we were number four.
And early in 2015, Pete Wells came back. By his second visit, we knew he was there to give us a proper re-review. No more warning shots. It was nerve-racking to see him, because
we’d stuck to our guns on a number of things he’d hated. But we’d used his criticism wisely; we’d changed what we wanted to change and were proud of the experience we were giving
our guests. In March of that year, he awarded us four stars. It was, as I like to say, the worst four-star review ever in the history of The New York Times. It still makes me laugh
to read it. He’s so grumpy! He can’t resist calling back to his first experience with the New York menu in 2012, calling it “the most ridiculous meal I’ve ever had.” Then he
proceeds to list fault after fault with the new experience— except that he’s finally forced to cry uncle: “Objections . . . buzzed before my eyes so insistently that at times they
blinded me to what was going on in the soaring Art Deco space across from Madison Square Park. Which was: a roomful of people almost goofy with happiness . . . and finally even me,
the overthinking picker of nits and finder of faults. Under the restaurant’s relentless, skillful campaign to spread joy, I gave in.” We did celebrate that night, though I should
note that holding on to four stars feels very different than earning them for the first time; the mood was more relief than jubilation. But in pre-meal the next day, I
congratulated the team, acknowledging that the review was an affirmation of their commitment to Unreasonable Hospitality. Wells hadn’t agreed with everything we were doing—he
didn’t even like a lot of it. And yet, by sticking to the principles of Unreasonable Hospitality, we’d left him with no choice but to acknowledge that he loved the way we made
people feel. Serve What You Want to Receive At the 50 Best in 2015, the air was thick with rumors, as always—and the big one was that we were going to come in at number one. It’s
best to ignore gossip, of course, but we’re human and it’s hard. So our hopes were up. But the speculation was dead wrong: instead of going from four to one, we slid backward, from
four to five. It was a real blow. Of course, it’s pretty incredible to be named one of the top five restaurants in the world, no matter where you land. But this was the first time
since we’d gotten on the list that we had fallen backward. As hard as we were pushing, something wasn’t working. In retrospect, I think that slide backward was the best thing that
could have happened to us, because it motivated us to change one last time. And we needed to change; the rumblings were already there. Over the course of that year, Daniel and I
had taken our usual field trips to the very best restaurants, and we had begun to notice another feature—or perhaps “bug” is a better word—that most of those spectacular meals had
in common. They were just too much. As inspired as we were by those incredible crescendos, as wowed as we were by course after course of faultless food paired with remarkable
wines, it was also overwhelming. Jaded as it might sound, we were starting to experience some fatigue. The excellence of the service and the theatricality of some courses were
impressive; still, it was hard the next day to remember what exactly we’d eaten, or any part of the conversation we’d had while we were there. The truth was that 75 percent of the
way through most of those meals, we were done and dusted—bellies full, restless, and ready to go. All this was in the back of our minds as we sat down to taste our own new menu at
the end of 2015. Daniel and I had dinner together at the restaurant every season, the day after the menu changed. This was mostly practical; you already know I believe it’s vitally
important for a leader to experience the service they’re providing just as an ordinary customer would. An idea is often different in practice than it is in conception, and eating
the menu as guests gave us the opportunity to make adjustments when, say, we discovered a presentation we’d been excited about felt too fussy, or when we were trying to be generous
but ended up stuffing the guest past the point of pleasure. Those dinners also provided a valuable quarterly check-in for Daniel and me, a more intentional opportunity to connect
than the ten thousand quick texts and hurried kitchen hallway conversations that made up the majority of our daily interactions. Indeed, that night we were not only analyzing our
meal but had slipped into a deeper, more intense meaning-of-life-type conversation. Or were trying to, anyway—and I say trying because, as dialed-in as the service was, it felt
