the new menu, we’d given our guests the gift of choice. Now, I wanted to give as many of them as possible the gift of delight—the surprise that comes from being truly seen and
heard. The chair at Spago, which probably cost Barbara a few thousand dollars, may have been inspiring, but it wasn’t scalable; we couldn’t do that for everyone who came in, or
even for a select few. But the hot dog was proof that we didn’t have to call in a furniture maker to blow someone’s mind. All we had to do was pay attention. Over the next month or
so, we started to play around with ways we could make some of these magical moments happen. When a table spent the better part of their meal talking about a movie they’d loved and
forgotten about, we dropped off a DVD of it (remember those?) with their check. A couple celebrating an anniversary mentioned they were staying at a nearby hotel; we made sure
there was a bottle of champagne waiting for them in their room when they got back, along with a handwritten note thanking them for trusting us with such an important occasion. A
four-top of parents debating the ethics of the Tooth Fairy found a quarter under their folded napkins every time one of them returned from the bathroom. We finished a meal for
someone who told us they loved Manhattans with a flight of variations on that cocktail—the Perfect Manhattan, so-called not because it improves on the original but because it uses
equal amounts of both sweet and dry vermouths; the Brooklyn, made with the French aperitif Amer Picon; the Distrito Federal, which substitutes aged tequila for the bourbon. We were
getting real traction with the guests as a result of these little gestures, and the staff was on fire coming up with ever-cooler tricks we could pull. We’d unlocked something
important, and we wanted to do it all the time. The only problem was a big one: we didn’t have the personnel. There isn’t a group of people standing around behind the scenes at a
busy restaurant twiddling their thumbs and waiting for an errand to run, and we certainly couldn’t risk compromising the impeccable service we were known for by pulling necessary
people off the floor. If we were going to commit to this, we needed to create a position. Christine McGrath was a host and reservationist, as well as a skilled calligrapher. Since
handwritten notes were a big part of what we were doing in those early days, we were already stealing her from her duties on a regular basis. She was the obvious person to step
into the role full-time. I hired an additional host to free her up, and just like that, we had a designated person in place to execute our ideas—Eleven Madison Park’s first
official Dreamweaver. I named the position after the iconic song by Gary Wright, which has always had a special place in my heart because it was playing the first time I kissed a
girl. (It will now be in your head for the rest of the day— sorry.) Sure enough, appointing Christine meant we were able to make these moments happen more frequently and more
consistently. Meanwhile, I was still wondering how we could do more. Then one night, I was dining at Danny Meyer’s pizza place Marta. Our server was a woman named Emily Parkinson,
who confessed that she was fangirling extra hard over our table because she’d had such a wonderful solo meal at Eleven Madison Park. Then she mentioned she’d painted her meal. At
first, I thought I’d misheard her. But while most people take pictures of their food, Emily paints hers. Actually, she made preliminary pencil sketches of each course while she was
at the restaurant; later, she finished the drawings with a watercolor wash. Charmed, I asked her to send me some photos, and the next morning, her illustrations were in my inbox.
(You can see them, too; Grub Street did a piece on Emily, featuring the paintings she made of her meal at EMP.) I’d barely opened the email before I’d picked up the phone to call
my friend Terry Coughlin, the GM of Marta: “Tell me right away if this is a nonstarter, but I’m working on something pretty cool over here and I want to poach Emily to help me with
it. . . .” Emily’s artistic talent supercharged the program. She’d run with whatever wild idea you brought her. A watercolor portrait of their new home in the country for a couple
leaving New York to start a family? Done. A three-foot-tall AT-AT wine decanter for a Star Wars superfan who also happened to be a wine geek? No problem. And her flawless execution
of these ideas made the team even more ambitious. Before long, we had multiple Dreamweavers on staff, working in their own fully equipped studio. (We set them up in the
reservationist’s office— I told you everything gets stashed in there!) It was Santa’s workshop, complete with leather punching and metalworking tools, a sewing machine, and every
art supply you can imagine. And we weren’t shy about putting it all to good use. In the years to come, Emily and the team would paint a pastoral scene, complete with cows and
ducks, so a visiting chef known for hunting much of the protein at his restaurant could choose his entrée by shooting it with a Nerf gun during his kitchen tour. A captain
overheard one of our out-of-town regulars regretting he hadn’t gotten his daughter a stuffed animal as he’d promised, so Emily fashioned a perfect little teddy bear for him out of
kitchen towels. A couple came in, splurging on dinner to console themselves after their vacation flight was canceled. We turned the private dining room into a private beach,
complete with beach chairs, sand on the ground, and a kiddie pool filled with water they could stick their toes into, and they drowned their disappointment in tropical daiquiris
decorated with little umbrellas. When a couple who’d gotten married at EMP came to celebrate their anniversary, we invited them to eat dessert at a table we’d set up in the private
dining room where they were married. The room was set with flowers, candles, a champagne bucket—the whole nine—and as they were finishing their dessert, we turned the lights even
lower and hit play on “Lovely Day” by Bill Withers—their wedding song, a detail we’d found in our notes. Then we turned the lights a little lower and closed the door behind us. We
were already Googling guests so we could greet them by name. That preliminary research became an important pipeline. A gentleman coming in for his birthday had a popular Instagram
account devoted to his love of bacon; I asked the pastry chef to create a bacon granola for him instead of our customary coconut-pistachio. We created an ice-cream course with
every outrageous sundae topping you can imagine (and some only a brigade of highly skilled cooks could bring to life) for a guest who had an Instagram account dedicated to her love
of the cone. These people were having experiences they couldn’t have anywhere else—and many of them were having experiences no other table in the restaurant was having. It was like
the Dead giving every fan their own show; at EMP, you would have needed forty bootleg cassettes to capture a single night. One night, a banker hustling to fund a new company teased
his captain: sure, an after-dinner drink would be great, but what he really needed was a million dollars to finish his raise. Alas, our budget only stretched to a bag filled with
ten 100 Grand chocolate bars, which we tucked under his chair. When he was done laughing, he told us his night at the restaurant had been “legendary.” I told the story in pre-meal,
and the term “Legend” became shorthand within the restaurant for these special touches—as in, “I did the best Legend for a table last night.” The name took on even greater
significance as we realized what made these Legends so legendary. Namely, they gave people a story—a Legend —to tell. Why do people put so much time and effort into a marriage
proposal? Because they know it’s a story they’ll tell for the rest of their lives. The best of those stories do two things: First, they put you right back in the moment, so that
you’re not just recounting the experience, but reliving it. Second, the story itself tells you that while you were having the experience, you were seen and heard. These days,
people, especially younger people, are more interested in collecting experiences than in getting more stuff. But restaurant meals, like many service experiences, are ephemeral. You
can take a copy of the menu home, and pictures of your plate, but you can’t relive that bite of foie gras. That changes when you leave with a story that’s good enough to put you
back in the moment, as if you were living it all over again. That’s why we took the Legends so seriously. If people were coming to us to add to their collection of experiences,
then we saw these not as extra flourishes but as a responsibility: to give people a memory so good it enabled them to relive their experience with us. The true gift, then, wasn’t
the street hot dog or the bag full of candy bars; it was the story that made a Legend a legend. Giving More Is Addictive The energy around these extra grace notes—these Legends—was
phenomenal. The dining room team was magnificent at what they did, and they were passionate about what they were doing. But no matter how much you love your job, the same thing
night after night gets stale. In restaurants, it’s usually the people in the kitchen who get to explore their creativity—whether collaborating with the chef on a new dish or
feeding their colleagues at family meal (trust me, you will hear about it if the family meal you put up is no good). With the Legends, everyone in the dining room had an outlet,
too—they weren’t just serving plates of other people’s creativity; they had the opportunity to infuse the experience with their own. The Legends—whether you were watching other
people do one or doing them yourself—made coming to work fun, and we were working way too hard not to have fun. I even started a private Instagram account to catalog them, so that
if you’d missed one on your day off, you could still be encouraged and inspired. And we celebrated every single one in pre- meal. If you were the person behind a Legend, you
immediately wanted to find a way to do another. Seeing that look of wonder and delight cross a guest’s face as they realized what they were seeing was a transformational moment; as
soon as you’d had that feeling, you wanted it again. The guests weren’t the only ones to benefit, either, because when one of our own came in to dine, we pulled out all the stops.
It’s worth mentioning that at the time some famous, old-school fine- dining restaurants didn’t permit staff to dine in at their restaurants at all. The rationale was that if a
guest sat next to someone who had previously served them, it would degrade the experience somehow. After all, nobody wants to sit next to the help—right? This makes me furious. The
only thing a rule like this does is tell the people who work so tirelessly for you that’s all they are: the help. We went hard in the other direction. Eliazar Cervantes loved
mariachi —so of course a band of musicians emerged from the walk-in and serenaded him during his tour. When Jeff Tascarella, the general manager at the NoMad, warned us in advance
that his dad was more of a Budweiser steak-and-potatoes guy than Sauternes and foie, we transformed our champagne cart into a Budweiser cart. One of our senior dining room
captains, Natasha McIrvin (who would later go on to be our creative director) is completely obsessed with Christmas. The first year she didn’t go home for the holiday, her parents
came to New York to surprise her; we hid them in the walk-in. When the family had reunited and returned to their table, they found a snowy, holiday-themed train on a tiny track
circling golden reindeer, pine garlands, and a giant pile of beautifully wrapped gifts. This was our caviar course—everything bagels balanced on top of the train cars, and a tin of
caviar and all the trimmings hidden in the presents beneath the wrapping and bows. Over the top? You bet. Not only did we want our people to come in for dinner; we wanted them to
have a better experience than anyone else in the room. It was a way to say thank you for all that the team gave us—their creativity, good humor, and hard work. But it was also to
show them the same graciousness they delivered every day. What better way to get fired up about giving Unreasonable Hospitality than to spend an evening receiving it? I often
wonder why more companies don’t invest in their own people this way. Major banks have private wealth managers, who deliver a heightened level of service to their wealthiest
clients. How much would it cost to give every teller a similarly attentive private banking experience? Wouldn’t that make sense from a retention standpoint? And perhaps more
important, how can you even quantify the improvement in the kind of service someone will deliver to their customers when they have themselves received the very best the bank has to
offer? For us, it was an ideal investment. The Dreamweaver idea may have originated with me, but it was the team who breathed life into it every day. The best part for me was
scrolling through that private Instagram account and seeing idea after idea I’d had nothing to do with. I hadn’t conceived of the concepts; I hadn’t approved them. The team had
come up with them independently and executed them so brilliantly that even I was inspired by them. It was the perfect marriage of ownership and improvisational hospitality. Create
a Tool Kit I hear this a lot: “Well, of course you could afford to pull those tricks at an expensive restaurant.” And I always think: Are you sure you can afford not to? It’s
true—these gifts cost money, in labor if nothing else. But I’m my dad’s son, and I reviewed the Dreamweaver line item in the P&L every month with an eagle eye. There was never any
question: given the word- of-mouth marketing this bought us with our guests and the excitement this kind of gift-giving created among the team, the program was worth every penny.
Anyway, as a leader, you can’t rely solely on your spreadsheets. You have to trust your gut—and what you feel when you’re in the room with people, giving and receiving these gifts.
Is there a traditional return on investment with a program like this? No. Am I confident that each dollar I spent here did as much or more than the ones I spent on traditional
marketing? Absolutely. In many ways, it was the perfect example of the Rule of 95/5 in action: we could afford to splurge on Legends because we were managing our money so closely
the rest of the time. But most of the time, we didn’t have to break the bank to blow someone’s mind: we’d put ten drugstore candy bars in a bag, and a guest had called us legendary
for it! It isn’t the lavishness of the gift that counts, but its pricelessness. I’d learned the importance of this in high school, when I worked as a busser and host at the Ruth’s
Chris Steak House in the Westchester Marriott. That Ruth’s Chris was a franchise, and so it had to closely follow the guidelines of the parent company: the same signage, uniforms,
china, glass, silver; the same menu. But the one I worked for had a secret: a fried calamari dish that wasn’t on the menu. Every piece of fried calamari I’d ever had before had
been cut into rings. This calamari was cut into strips. And I have no idea what they breaded it with, but it was flipping delicious. (Yes, I ate the leftovers off the tables I
bussed. Absolutely disgusting. I have no regrets.) You couldn’t order this calamari; you could only get it if they sent it out to you. Often, when you’re a regular (or if a
restaurant messes up your order and wants to get back into your good graces), they’ll send you an extra appetizer, or a dessert, or a glass of champagne. The problem is that you
know exactly how much that dessert cost: “Oh, they love me fourteen dollars’ worth.” But you could only get the fried calamari if you were part of the club—or if someone wanted you
to feel like you were. The cost to the restaurant was insignificant; its impact was not. That calamari was, by definition, priceless, just like the two-dollar street hot dog I’d
sent to that table. But it was also right there, every night —a gift waiting to be given. Sending this priceless calamari didn’t require planning or strategy; all it took was an
impulse and the press of a button. This is an important strategy for every business. Improvisational hospitality is fundamentally reactive. You’re always responding—either to the
information that you’ve gathered in advance (a guest telling the reservationist they’re coming in to celebrate his wife’s fortieth) or to a tidbit you’ve overheard at the table.
But, as oxymoronic as it may seem, you can also be proactive about improvisational hospitality. This is simple pattern recognition: identify moments that recur in your business,
and build a tool kit your team can deploy without too much effort. Brainstorm materials it would be useful to have on hand, organize those materials on-site so that staff can
readily access them, and empower the people who work for you to use them. Do that, and you’ve systemized improvisational hospitality. We had done this for years at EMP with what we
called the Plus One cards. (We did these for so long I genuinely can’t remember if we started them or if they predated me.) Plus One cards were answers to questions we were
frequently asked—Who does your floral arrangements? Can you tell me more about the farm that made this cheese?—printed on simple index cards we kept in a card catalog box in the
back. If a server saw a guest flip a plate to see who’d made it, they brought the card that explained who Jono Pandolfi was and where you could see more of his work. We called them
Plus One because they were a little extra. Unnecessary, but nice to have. Guest expectations for us were high by that point, and this was a way for us to overdeliver—to give a
little bit more, even, than what they were expecting. And because they were printed up, filed neatly, and ready to go, it took little effort for the staff to take advantage of
them. There are two kinds of people: the kind who love to receive gifts, and the kind who love to give them. To be clear, both are equally selfish, because people who love to give
gifts get their own reward when they see the amazed look that tells them they’ve nailed it. By the time the Dreamweaver program was in full swing, the people who were working for
us tended to fall into the camp of people who loved to give gifts, and they were great at delivering Legends. But we wanted to make sure they had the opportunity to give all the
time, not just when they had a moment of inspiration, so we created a tool kit. Since people visiting from out of town often asked about our own favorite haunts in the city, we
printed little maps, marked with some of our secret spots: the best pizza slice, the best bagel, the best place to get Sunday brunch, along with lesser-known New York City
treasures like the Rubin Museum. We bought tickets to the observation deck of the Empire State Building we could give out to tourists who were super excited to be in New York. (I
know tons of born-and-bred New Yorkers who have never gone up there because it seems cheesy—and it is, but it’s also an amazing way to see the city. Smuggle a flask.) As our focus
on Unreasonable Hospitality grew, we were always looking for a way to “plus one” the experience—to give people a little more than they expected—by staying alert to recurring
situations. People often slipped outside for a cigarette during their meal; while they were out there, we’d bring them a splash of booze in a little to-go cup we’d special-ordered
for the purpose. Another, and probably my favorite: when a couple got engaged at the restaurant, we would pour them complimentary glasses of champagne, like every restaurant does.
But their champagne flutes were different than all the others in the dining room—they were crystal flutes I’d partnered with Tiffany to provide. At the end of their meal, we’d send
the couple home with a gift box in that iconic robin’s-egg blue, containing the glasses they’d used for their engagement toast. The partnership was an easy win for Tiffany; I
guarantee most of those couples put a full set of flutes onto their registries. And it was a lovely win for us. As the Dreamweavers built up some steam, many of the items they
created as bespoke presents or Legends became part of our tool kit. One afternoon, a table laughed with their captain about overdoing it with the wine and wished out loud that
instead of going back to the office, they could head home for a tipsy nap. So the Dreamweaver sent them out with a wink—a fake doctor’s note excusing them for the afternoon, and a
pack of aspirin. But people often made a similar joke: “Oof, we went hard tonight; tomorrow’s gonna hurt!” So the Dreamweavers put together a little morning rescue kit—a bag of
strong ground coffee, some Alka-Seltzer tablets, and a muffin—for the captains to hand out whenever a guest anticipated their hangover out loud. And because the Dreamweavers were
standing by, a captain might say, “I loved that impromptu snack box you put together for the woman who was catching the red-eye to Seattle. I would love to be able to give those
out on a more frequent basis; could we make a bunch?” Then those airplane snack boxes were just there, waiting for a traveler to check bags because they’d be leaving straight from
lunch to the airport. At the end of their meal, we’d hand them their coat, roll out their luggage —oh, and when you get hungry again on the plane, here’s a nicer nosh than a pack
of stale pretzels. The fresh elements had to be baked and restocked daily, but the thinking—the idea, the plan, the basic execution—had to happen only once. Prepare for these
recurring moments in advance, and your staff doesn’t have to reinvent the wheel every night—they just have to listen and make it happen. You might be wondering: Once you’ve
systemized it, is it still hospitable? Does that airplane snack box carry the same warmth and generosity the thirtieth time you hand one to a guest as it did the first? After all,
we’re talking about bespoke hospitality—is something lost if the gift isn’t specific to you? Without hesitation, I can say no, because the value of a gift isn’t about what went
into giving it, but how the person receiving it feels. Maybe it was the thirtieth time we’d handed a traveling guest a snack box, but it was the first time for them—and their
delight wasn’t dimmed in the slightest because they hadn’t been the only ones. We were always looking for ways to scale what was unique—and working—about what we were offering, and
counterbalancing those gestures with one-off, improvisational hospitality. It was important to keep checking in with the systems we had put in place to make sure they hadn’t
started to feel expected or formulaic or outgrown their usefulness. But in general, systemizing these gestures made it possible to make more people happy. And the team could use
the leftover bandwidth to focus on the more singular moments—to create those Legends. Opportunities for Hospitality Exist in Every Business One of my close friends runs one of the
big realty firms in New York and has asked me on a couple of occasions to talk to her team about hospitality. The first thing I ask the real estate agents is what gift they leave
to welcome a new homeowner. Ninety-nine percent of the time, they tell me, “A bottle of sparkling wine in the fridge.” Now, a bottle of bubbles is nothing to complain about. But
there’s also nothing personal, nothing inspiring or memorable, about it—and there should be! You’re selling someone a home or helping them to sell the one they’ve lived in. That’s
one of the most intimate transactions there is. For the amount of time that an agent spends with people, listening to their hopes and dreams for the future (incidentally, much
longer than I’ve ever spent with a table), and the size of the average commission, a real estate professional should absolutely be able to figure out a bespoke gift for everyone
they work with. Again: not expensive, necessarily, but personalized. That hot dog cost two dollars, but there was probably only one table in the history of the restaurant that I
could have presented it to. People often confuse hospitality with luxury, but I could have given that table a bottle of vintage Krug and a kilo of caviar, and it wouldn’t have had
anywhere near the same impact. Luxury means just giving more; hospitality means being more thoughtful. So: if your buyer is into music, leave them their favorite album on
vinyl—and, depending on the size of your commission, spring for a turntable as well. If a client dreamed out loud about doing yoga in that nook off the hallway with the sunlight
streaming through, then buy a mat and roll it out there, so it’s the first thing to greet them when they walk into their new home. A yoga mat doesn’t take any more time, energy, or
resources to secure than a bottle of Prosecco, just a bit more thoughtfulness. Many good businesspeople make these gestures instinctively. A real estate agent I spoke to told me
about a Legend she’d pulled, long before she knew the term. Since she knew the new owners were planning a gut renovation, she got permission to remove the doorjamb where her
client, the seller, had marked her kids’ heights every year as they grew. To anyone else, it would have been a worthless piece of splintered wood, headed for the dumpster—but not
to her client, who wept when she realized what it was. (Total cost: $0.) I sincerely believe that this kind of gift is the goal, especially given how much time real estate agents
spend with clients, and the size of the transactions. But it may not be logistically possible for everyone to receive an experience that requires improvisation and bespoke, in-the-
moment creation. Building a tool kit is a way to scale those extraordinary experiences, so that as many people as possible can experience these small, special touches. If you’re
selling an apartment to a couple having a baby, get a pack of those protective plastic outlet covers and leave them in a drawer with a little note: “You’ve got big adventures
coming up, so I took this off your to-do list.” And because so many people move when they find out they’re expecting, keep a case of those outlet covers in your office so you don’t
have to scramble. For newcomers to the area you specialize in, put together a guidebook of all your favorite spots—the best stroll, the best rigorous hike, the best apple cider
donut. Print a dozen at a time. Another agent I spoke with mentioned she’d sold eight pied-à-terres to suburban empty nesters in a single year. Do those people want yet another
basic bottle of sparkling wine, available at every corner liquor store? Or would they prefer a behind-the-scenes tour of the art restoration facilities at the Met? Or tickets to
the Village Vanguard? Or a membership to an art house movie theater in Brooklyn? And if you can’t or don’t want to go that far, then take a minute to focus on making your
back-pocket gift more thoughtful. Leave a Chemex coffeepot, with a box of filters and a bag of locally roasted ground coffee —because that’s what people really need on their first
morning in a new house before they’ve found the moving box with the espresso machine in it. I guarantee they’ll think of you and your thoughtfulness every time they use it. Fine,
you’re thinking, except that restaurants and real estate are filled with opportunities, unlike my business. I don’t buy it. There are inflection points—patterns—in every business.
Look closely, and you’ll find them. And when you do, make sure you do something about it. Another example: People tend to buy cars at specific points in their lives. Maybe they’re
starting a family and need a bigger vehicle, or their teenager has gotten a license and they’re buying their child their first car. Or the kids are off to college, and it’s time to
get something a little sportier than the beat-up family boat they’ve been using to go back and forth from ballet and soccer practice. If you know that people are going to come in,
looking to buy a car for their teenager, why wouldn’t you be prepared with an act of hospitality that will strengthen their connection to your brand? How would you feel about a car
salesperson who pulled you aside and said, “Look, I know what it’s like to have a newly licensed teenager on the road, so I got Frankie a year of Triple A. That way you know she’s
not going to get stranded out there.” A Triple A membership costs $119 at the time of this writing—a hundred and nineteen dollars that pretty much guarantees those parents will
never buy a car from anyone else. Or can you imagine the look a harried dad, struggling to install a booster seat, would give you if you sent him off your lot with a bag of
Pepperidge Farm Goldfish, so his toddler doesn’t get hangry on the way home—and a little DustBuster vacuum, so Dad can vacuum up all those orange crumbs and keep his brand-new car
looking brand-new? When people have the resources and the autonomy to imbue these transactions with their own thoughtfulness, salespeople become product designers. That car didn’t
come outfitted with a DustBuster, but that salesperson decided that for this specific customer, it would be better if it did. And they are going to feel a sense of pride in selling
a product that they helped create. And you should always—always—be on the lookout for the Legend. Let’s say a guy has come back to your dealership every couple of years for a new
car, and you’ve gotten to know him well. When his kids go off to college, he starts looking at vans; with a little more time on his hands, he’s rediscovered his adolescent passion
for surfing. Why wouldn’t you have a freshly waxed board waiting for him in the roof rack when he comes to pick up his new car? Obviously, this is a big gift, but it’s also one
with the potential to turn a faithful customer into a lifelong relationship. And if a surfboard’s outside your budget, a can of surf wax on the dash with a bow and a note will do
much the same thing. Gifts, to me, are deeply meaningful, which is why I get so mad when a business gives me a cheap tote with a branded USB drive. Try harder! Do better! Gifts are
a way to tell people you saw, heard, and recognized them —that you cared enough to listen, and to do something with what you heard. A gift transforms an interaction, taking it from
transactional to relational; there is no better way than a gift to demonstrate that someone is more than a customer or a line item on a spreadsheet. And the right one can help you
to extend your hospitality all the way into someone’s life. CHAPT ER 19 SCALING A CULTURE BACK IN THE DAY, the best restaurants in the world were in hotels. César Ritz ran the
Hotel Splendide in Paris in the 1870s and introduced the robber barons of America to European luxury. In Monte Carlo, he met a French chef called Auguste Escoffier, and the rest is
hospitality history— the two men’s partnership ensured that, for the rest of the nineteenth century and all of the twentieth, the world’s great hotels would be known for their
restaurants. Unfortunately, over time, the concept of the luxurious hotel restaurant fell out of favor. The restaurant in a hotel had become a sad add-on, the kind of grim spot
you’d choose only if you were too exhausted from travel and meetings to leave the building. And if a new hotel did happen to attract a good restaurant, management would use
separate entrances and branding to ensure the two felt distinct. Early in 2010, Daniel and I were approached by Andrew Zobler, one of the partners in the hotel group that had
developed and opened the Ace Hotel on Twenty-Ninth and Broadway. The Ace chain, with their affordable rooms, industrial and reclaimed aesthetic, and scene-heavy lobbies that
doubled as workspaces had been runaway hits. Now Andrew wanted to talk to us about doing the food and beverage at a hotel with a new, higher-end concept: the rebirth of the Grand
Hotel. It would be called the NoMad. Andrew had the crazy idea to make the restaurant an integral part of the hotel once again—to bring back the days of Escoffier and Ritz. Both
Daniel and I fell in love with the idea immediately, and we knew Andrew was the right person to do it with. We loved the way his other projects combined art, design, and retail
alongside the food and beverage programs. We also saw an opportunity to rejuvenate a New York neighborhood that could use a little love. The new site was mere blocks away from
Eleven Madison Park, but the neighborhood was a throwback to the bad old days of the seventies: it was not unusual to witness a drug deal taking place in broad daylight. Broadway
was lined with wholesale shops selling cheap trinkets, and the subway grates were covered by tarps with handles at the corner, so vendors could hide the knockoff bags they were
selling when a cop drove by. A hotel that didn’t charge by the hour would play a major role in reinventing the neighborhood, and that was a powerful incentive for us. So was the
management contract they were offering us: we wouldn’t have to invest any money, which was good because we didn’t have any. Then came the hard part—talking to Danny Meyer. Nobody
Knows What They’re Doing Before They Do It “We have huge aspirations for Eleven Madison Park, and they’re within reach,” we told Danny. “At the same time, we don’t want to be
employees forever. We’d love to be owners of our own thing at the NoMad and continue working for you at Eleven Madison Park.” Danny asked to think about it for a while—and then he
said no. “I can’t be partners with you at one restaurant and competitors with you at another just a few blocks away.” There was some back and forth, and then he came back with an
alternative: “How about you buy EMP from me?” This was the last thing we’d expected to come out of that meeting. Still, almost without thinking, I said, “We’d love to.” I had no
idea how we were going to pull it off. Looking back, I didn’t even know what or how much I didn’t know. But the biggest, scariest, most impossible-seeming accomplishments start
with a simple commitment to do them. I say this whenever someone shares their fears with me about taking a leap forward: Nobody knows what they’re doing before they do it. When
you’re trying to level up, it’s easy to psych yourself out by focusing on everything you don’t know. But you’ve got to have faith in your ability to figure it out. A black diamond
is scary if you usually ski blues. But you’ll never advance if you always turn around to find an easier trail; eventually, you have to put your poles in the snow and push. Growth
happens outside of your comfort zone. Whether on your ass or on your skis, don’t worry— you will get down the hill, and you’ll learn a lot along the way. (This is also why
promoting people before they are ready works so well.) Danny’s offer came with a wise caveat: “You need to figure out if you can raise the money and buy the restaurant by February
or March. No matter how hard we try to keep this under wraps, the secret will get out, and it’ll be devastating for morale if the restaurant is in limbo for too long.” He was
right, but it left us less than three months to raise a huge amount of money. And I don’t mind telling you the experience was positively harrowing. I started sitting down in the
dining room with regulars. I didn’t want to sound gauche by asking them for money, so I’d say, “Off the record, we’ve been given an opportunity to buy the restaurant. Do you know
anyone who might want to invest?” Of course, I was hoping they’d be interested themselves, and a few of them were, so I spent a lot of time having drinks. But those were all dead
ends—turns out, the kind of person who can afford to eat at an expensive restaurant can’t necessarily afford to buy one. Then Ernesto Cruz, a regular who worked upstairs in our
building, said, “I help people buy and sell companies all the time. I’d be happy to help you.” I thought: I don’t need help; I need money. So I wasted another two or three weeks.
Then one night after service, feeling desperate, I emailed Ernesto: “If your offer still stands, I could use some help.” Ernesto became my guardian angel. He put together a team of
his colleagues who all worked pro bono to help usher me through the process. They showed me how to put together a deck, what modeling was, and how to demonstrate a return on
investment. They set aside time so I could rehearse my pitch and give me feedback on my delivery. Then they came up with a list of potential investors, and I took my suit and my
briefcase to Boston, to Chicago—even to Beverly Hills. Asking for money is hard; it’s humiliating to try to convince people that you’re good enough for them to invest in. But I
believed in Eleven Madison Park. Ultimately, they introduced us to an investor named Noam Gottesman. We met him over lunch at Sushi Yasuda and got to know one another as
individuals before talking about our ambitions for the restaurant. He must have seen something in us, because two weeks before the deadline was set to expire, we had the money.
I’ll forever be grateful for his vision and support. At virtually the same time, we signed the deal to open the restaurant at the NoMad, which was set to open in March 2012. So, on
November 11, 2011 (11/11/11), we announced to the staff that we had bought the restaurant. In a particularly dramatic turn of events, in that same week, Eleven Madison Park: The
Cookbook came out, and we became the first restaurant in history to be elevated from one to three Michelin stars in a single year. Make It Nice We called our new company Make It
Nice, after Daniel’s signature phrase, back when his English was less refined. It had quickly become shorthand within the restaurant for “Pay a little extra attention to
this”—whether “this” was a table of friends, or a dish, or even a side-work project. By that point, expectations were so clear, a team member could say, “Make it nice,” to one of
their colleagues, and without any further explanation, they would. The symmetry of the words themselves appealed, reinforcing that this was a restaurant run by both sides of the
wall. The kitchen “makes” food; in the dining room, we were “nice.” (We were so adamant about breaking down the walls that divided us that—as you may have noticed—we didn’t even
use the common terms “back of house” and “front of house.” Instead, we always referred to them as “the kitchen” and “the dining room.”) Plus, “make” and “nice” had the same number
of letters. It was the perfect name for our company, encompassing both excellence and hospitality. Creativity Is a Practice The list of words we’d come up with because of a
throwaway reference to Miles Davis in that early review of EMP had shaped the way we’d grown. So when we signed the deal to open the NoMad, we knew we wanted to find another
musical influence to serve as our muse. If EMP was Miles Davis, then the NoMad would be the Rolling Stones. The Rolling Stones are sex and drugs and Mick Jagger’s dangerous energy
strutting across the stage, right? But when the Stones were coming up, they bought and memorized every album they could find by American blues artists. They learned everything they
could about the music they loved before imposing their own take. So yes, the Stones were loose—but in an incredibly studied and intentional way. That was how they’d reinvented
rhythm and blues. The NoMad was positioned at the intersection of uptown and downtown. We wanted to create an urban playground that could straddle both worlds and deliver the best
