was like seeing someone play chess in three dimensions. Once he’d moved from a position with no organizational component or opportunity for leadership into one that depended on
those skills, Eliazar quickly came into his own, and the whole restaurant got to see his genius. He went on to shine as head expediter at Eleven Madison Park for years, becoming an
essential part of our success. Finding his hidden gifts, and those of others on the team, was an important step. The pieces were starting to come together. Keep Emotions Out of
Criticism You know when one of your friends has fallen out of love but can’t quite get it together to have the tough conversation with their partner about why the relationship
isn’t working? So they act like a giant jerk instead, in the hopes that the other person will get fed up and do the dumping? There had been a lot of that going on, managerially
speaking, under the previous regime at EMP. So I let the team know I wasn’t afraid to have difficult conversations— hearing difficult things, or saying them. The most valuable
class I took at Cornell was Spanish, and the second most valuable was the one where I learned Excel. But I also have to give some credit to a class called Organizational
Behavior—mostly because they made us read The One Minute Manager by Ken Blanchard and Spencer Johnson. I still give The One Minute Manager to every person I promote. It’s an
amazing resource, in particular on how to give feedback. My biggest takeaways were: Criticize the behavior, not the person. Praise in public; criticize in private. Praise with
emotion, criticize without emotion. When someone who worked for me did a task well, I made sure to find a way to hype them up for it, and in front of as many of their colleagues as
I could. Receiving praise, especially in front of your peers, is addictive. You always want more. To ensure we were doing it consistently, we instituted the monthly Made Nice
Award, where the entire management team voted for one person from the kitchen and one person from the dining room who had gone above and beyond—whether with a guest or for their
colleagues. This was inspired by the Employee of the Month awards you see at places like McDonald’s. Those awards are usually unloved—four months out of date and hanging in a
cheesy frame outside the bathroom—but it’s amazing to establish a regular rhythm for giving praise. We posted the Made Nice Award with the employee’s picture above the time clock,
so they’d enjoy the recognition of their peers. We also gave them a hundred-dollar gift card to the restaurant—a way for them to show off where they worked to their friends and
family. We were as thoughtful about criticism as we were about praise. I invited people on the team to come to me if they thought we could be doing something better, and to do so
well before their frustrations reached a boiling point. Similarly, I encouraged managers to address their own issues with the team as soon as one popped up—before the problem
became entrenched, and therefore emotionally charged. When young managers take the reins of power—and most managers in our business are young when they start because of how little
money they make—they want to be liked. They work with people fourteen hours a day, and often they end up going out for a drink after work; it’s normal to want to be seen as part of
the group. So when a server comes in with an unironed shirt, you let the minor infraction slide in the interest of creating a friendly environment, both for the server in question
and—let’s face it—for yourself. You don’t say anything. And you don’t say anything when you notice the shirt isn’t ironed the next day, and the next day, and the next. By day
twenty, you’ve started to take those wrinkles personally. The reality is that this guy hasn’t ironed his shirt because nobody’s told him to. But in your mind, he’s not ironing his
shirt because he doesn’t respect you as a manager, or the restaurant he works at, or the other members of his team. That sloppy shirt has become a blinking neon sign for you: this
guy couldn’t care less about the amazing organization you’re trying to build. Your resentment festers, so by the time you eventually get around to addressing this unironed shirt
issue with your employee, it feels personal —and emotional. Spoiler alert: the conversation you finally end up having with him is going to go badly. At our manager meetings, we
talked about how to avoid moments like this. Many of these confrontations could be avoided with early, clear, and drama-free corrections—like pulling that guy with the wrinkled
shirt aside on day one to say: “Hey! Good to see you this morning. That shirt’s looking a little rough; why don’t you head upstairs and give it a once-over with the iron before we
sit down for family meal?” Every manager lives with the fantasy that their team can read their mind. But in reality, you have to make your expectations clear. And your team can’t
be excellent if you’re not holding them accountable to the standards you’ve set. You normalize these corrections by making them swiftly, whenever they’re needed. And make those
corrections in private. I can still feel the flush of shame and horror that crept up from my collar when I was screamed at in the dining room by the chef de cuisine at Spago; I’ll
remember it for the rest of my life. And while it was a terrible experience, it was also a privileged peek at a mistake I never wanted to make. Correct an employee in front of
their colleagues, and they’ll never forgive you. In fact, the wall of shame that goes up may mean they can’t even absorb what you’re telling them. Issue the same correction in
private, though, and it’s a different exchange. Whether criticism or praise, it’s a leader’s job to give their team feedback all the time. But every person on the team should be
hearing more about what they did well than what they could do better, or they’re going to feel deflated and unmotivated. And if you can’t find more compliments to deliver than
criticism, that’s a failure in leadership— either you’re not coaching the person sufficiently, or you’ve tried and it’s not working, which means they should no longer be on the
team. These rules help your team to feel safe—especially if you practice them consistently. Consistency is one of the most important and underrated aspects of being a leader. A
person can’t feel safe at work if they’re apprehensive about what version of their manager they’re going to encounter on any given day. So if you’re the boss, you need to be
steady, controlling your moods so you don’t end up taking out that morning’s squabble with your spouse on a server with a wrinkled shirt. This is the ideal—but let’s be honest:
every once in a while, you’re going to mess up. When you do, apologize. There’s an inherent intensity that comes with being passionate about what you do, and on occasion, it can
get the better of you. I’ve certainly expressed exasperation and disappointment in ways that weren’t textbook illustrations of how to handle a correction in the workplace. But
every time, I’ve made sure to apologize—not for the feedback itself, but for the way I delivered it. Thirty Minutes a Day Can Transform a Culture In spite of this mushy talk about
listening and learning, at heart, I’m a systems guy. And in 2006, EMP desperately needed some systems. When initiating change, I look for the best lever, whatever will allow me to
transmit the most force with the least amount of energy. And there’s no better lever than a daily thirty-minute meeting with your team. Most restaurants hold a daily meeting before
service. It’s called line-up or pre-meal and is a time to introduce and review new menu items, new wines by the glass, and new steps of service. But it can be much, much more than
that: A daily thirty-minute meeting is where a collection of individuals becomes a team. In fact, I firmly believe that if every dentist’s office, every insurance company, every
moving company had a daily thirty-minute meeting with their team, customer service as we know it would profoundly change. At EMP, the way we ran our pre-meal meetings set a tone
that was at least as important as what we said. Attendance was mandatory. The meetings started on time, at eleven and five, and lasted exactly thirty minutes. For the first year, I
ran every single meeting myself, both lunch and dinner, Monday through Friday. I wanted the team to see me, and to know I was accessible and accountable to them, and
consistent—that I’d do exactly what I’d said I would do, when I’d said I would do it. In the restaurant’s previous iteration, pre-meal had been exclusively devoted to the items on
the plate or in the glass: here is the main ingredient, here’s how long it was aged for, here’s what it’s served with, and this is how you pour the sauce tableside. This basic
transfer of information was vitally important, especially because so much was changing. At Danny Meyer’s other restaurants, managers offered printed line-up notes, including new
menu items, new wines, and information about new farms and producers, so the material could be taken and studied at home. But, probably because they were moving so fast, that
practice had fallen by the wayside at EMP. I immediately reinstituted it: there would be no more ambiguity about what we expected the servers to know. All the menu and wine
descriptions had to be carefully written out, edited, and spell-checked by the managers, who were expected to have their packets ready on time for the meeting so servers could take
notes in the packet during the verbal presentations made by the kitchen team and the wine director. I stayed late every night that first week designing a template for those line-up
notes, so they would be beautiful as well as clear and well- organized. That was unreasonable, but the way you do one thing is the way you do everything, and I wanted those notes
to be as thoughtful, as beautifully presented, as the lavender honey–glazed dry-aged duck we brought to our guests. In this case, the people on staff were the recipients of my
hospitality, and I wasn’t going to stand up and talk about excellence without modeling it myself. Done right, a pre-meal meeting fills the gas tank of the people who work for you
right before you ask them to go out and fill the tanks of the people they’re serving. Communicating consistent standards, with lots of repetition, was important; a good manager
makes sure everyone knows what they have to do, then makes sure they’ve done it—that’s the black-and-white part of being a leader. But a huge part of leadership is taking the time
to tell your team why they’re doing what they’re doing, and I used pre-meal to get into that why. I spoke to the spirit of the restaurant and to the culture we were trying to
build. I used those meetings to inspire and uplift the team and to remind them what we were striving for. Those thirty minutes were our time to celebrate the wins, even the small
ones, a time to publicly acknowledge when someone on the team was crushing it. Our meetings followed the same template every day, so everyone knew exactly what to expect. We’d
start with housekeeping (“Thursday’s the last day to make changes to your health insurance; call Angie if you’ve got questions”). Then I’d move into a quick riff on a topic that
had inspired me. It could be an article I’d read about another company or a service experience I’d had somewhere else. Inspiration was everywhere. One day, the place where I
ordinarily got my hair cut was fully booked, so I stopped into a classic New York City barbershop, complete with twisting striped pole and combs soaking in huge blue jars of
Barbicide. As I was paying for my haircut, the gruff barber asked me, “What do you want?” I looked up, confused; he was pointing at three huge handles filled with gin, vodka, and
whiskey. “Whiskey!” I said, grinning, and he handed me a shot in a tiny disposable cup, the kind your dentist uses for mouthwash, before sending me on my way. I told the story that
afternoon at pre-meal. Who on earth thought of that mini-shot? It was ridiculous, irrelevant, whimsical. A tiny dose of generosity designed to—what? To surpass your expectations,
to change your channel, maybe just to put a smile on your face as you were walking out the door. It was wonderful, and I wanted the team to be as inspired by it as I had been. The
beginning of every pre-meal started with a call-and-response: “Happy Wednesday!” “Happy Wednesday!” They ended with one, too; I’d say, “Have a good service!” to which the staff
would respond, in the tradition of the French kitchen, “Oui!” You knew when you’d given a good pre-meal by the way they said “Oui!,” and I got a good one that day. Stealing thirty
precious minutes for pre-meal from an already over- crammed day was a big ask, and sometimes my insistence on these meetings felt like rearranging the deck chairs on the Titanic.
This was especially true because the managers immediately let me know that taking the full thirty minutes for the meeting would mean less time for side work, which was already
squeezed into a slot too tight for everything to get done. The answer, for me, was easy. “So let’s dial back on some of this side work to make the time.” In order to become a team,
we needed to stop, take a deep breath, and communicate with one another. If that meant using a more basic napkin fold or simplifying the butter presentation so everyone had time to
meet, then that was a trade-off I was willing to accept. How connected we were as a team was more important to me than anything. Set Them Up to Succeed In those early days, I sat
down with one server, a smart, personable guy who should have been perfectly suited to our new mission. At our meeting, though, he seemed drained and overwhelmed. When I asked what
was up, he pushed a giant packet of paper across the table—the notes he’d been given on the wine list. “I just don’t think I’m going to be able to get on top of this,” he said, and
I couldn’t blame him; I was lost myself by page three. Employees who aren’t succeeding tend to fall into two camps: the ones who aren’t trying, and the ones who are. The end result
may be similar, but the two need to be handled differently: you’ve got to move heaven and earth to help the people who are trying. This was one of those times. Yes, I wanted EMP to
have one of the best wine lists in the world and knowledgeable servers who could expertly guide our guests through it, but drowning them in detail wasn’t the way to get there.
Expectations were too high. We needed to solidify our foundation before adding more stories. We needed to slow down to speed up. Later, this would become one of our catchphrases. I
would remind the team: “You’re busy, and there are a thousand things you need to do for your tables. But take ten seconds to double-check the order you’ve put into the computer,
because entering the wrong dish has the potential to ruin your whole night—and that of your guests! Go too fast, and you’ll end up slowing the whole restaurant down.” There was no
way I was going to stop all forward progress toward a more refined, high-end service experience; there were a bunch of us, Daniel and myself included, who had big aspirations for
the restaurant. If we stopped in our tracks, that group was going to feel we were squandering momentum. But we were already squandering momentum by trying to do too much too soon.
We had to rebuild the engine before we could shift into fifth gear. So I drastically cut what we were asking the dining room team to learn. It helped that I wasn’t super
knowledgeable about the kind of food and wine we were serving. Because I was learning the material right alongside my team, I had a better sense for what we needed to know—and for
how big those pieces of information could be, while still remaining digestible. Eventually, yes: we’d know all seven microclimates in a particular vineyard, and we’d charm guests
with tales of the winemaker’s grandfather and what his work in the French Resistance had to do with the enigmatic image on the label. First, though, the basics: “This is a 2005
chardonnay made by Au Bon Climat in California, aged in neutral French oak. It’s bright and mineral with firm acidity, and it pairs perfectly with the Scottish salmon with daikon,
baby leeks, and citrus.” We started giving the servers a food and wine test every two weeks. That probably seemed punitive to some members of the old guard, but it was part of the
move toward clarity: now that we were communicating clearly what we expected people to learn, it made sense to hold them accountable. But I outright rejected the first food and
wine test the managers presented to me; it was much, much too hard. “Nobody’s going to pass this! I wouldn’t pass this.” The point of these tests wasn’t to fail people or to call
them out; it was to make sure they felt confident and knew what they needed to know. Ultimately, this is one of a manager’s biggest responsibilities: to make sure people who are
trying and working hard have what they need to succeed. It wasn’t much longer before I finally delivered my rousing, Christopher Russell–style speech. It wasn’t at my first
pre-meal, or even my thirtieth, but the one I gave after I’d finally started to feel confident that everyone was talking to one another and to me and knew what was expected of
them. “We’re going to make this restaurant one of the best restaurants in New York,” I told the assembled team. “It’s not going to be easy, because being the best is never easy,
but we are going to try to make it fun. If that’s not right for you, I totally get it; we’ll help you find a better fit. But if the idea of working at one of the most exciting
restaurants in New York gets you fired up, then I hope you stick around, because we’re about to take off. “I promise I’ll try to be consistent, to do what’s fair and what’s right.”
Then I did quote Christopher: “I’m also clear about what my job is, which is to do what’s best for the restaurant, not to do what’s best for any of you. More often than not, what’s
best for the restaurant will include doing what’s best for you. But the only way I can take care of all of you as individuals is by always putting the restaurant first.” I finished
with my own words: “We’re going to make the kind of place we want to eat at; we’re going to create the four-star restaurant for the next generation. That’s where we’re going. Will
you come?” CHAPT ER 8 BREAKING RULES AND BUILDING A TEAM “UM, WILL? CAN I TALK to you for a second?” Apparently, I’d done something wrong. While walking through the dining room
during an early service, I recognized a good regular from Tabla. It was great to see him again, and I spent a couple of minutes at the table, chatting warmly and catching up. A few
minutes later, the service director, firmly in the fine-dining faction, had caught up with me. “You leaned on the table? When you were talking to 42? That’s a real fine-dining
no-no. We don’t put our hands on the table. We never do that.” I felt for the guy: it’s awkward to yell at someone when that person is also your boss. “How come?” I wasn’t trying
to be a jerk; I was genuinely curious. I thought his head was going to explode. “It’s a classic rule of fine dining, that you don’t touch the table.” “But why?” “I don’t know why;
we just don’t. We just don’t do that.” It was a small, awkward moment in a period full of them. But for me, it took on an outsize significance and determined my approach to how we
moved forward. Before I started at EMP, I’d done a short training at the Modern, the most formal restaurant in Danny’s company at the time. It had been uncomfortable. I knew many
of the people who worked there, but I’d always been the casual café guy, and they didn’t bother hiding their skepticism about my new role at Eleven Madison Park. One of the senior
managers went so far as to ask me, “Why do you think you’re going to be able to succeed there? You’ve never even worked at a four-star restaurant.” She wasn’t being mean; given my
background and stated interests, I was not a natural fit. Over the years, though, I came to see my four-star inexperience not as a weakness but as a superpower. My inexperience
enabled me to look critically at every step of service and to interrogate the only thing that mattered: the guests’ experience. Did a rule bring us closer to our ultimate goal,
which was connecting with people? Or did it take us further from it? Most of the time, excellent training makes you better at what you do. Athletes practice all day every day so
their muscle memory will take over as soon as the ball or the racket is in their hands. By definition, impeccable training enables you to perform your tasks without needing to
think about why you’re doing what you’re doing—which is fantastic if your job is to have an astronomical free-throw percentage. But muscle memory isn’t always a good thing;
training like that can also be like putting on a pair of blinders. Those meticulously schooled fine-dining folks were doing what they’d always done; they weren’t thinking
critically about the rules they were enforcing. They weren’t in any position to determine whether those rules were good ones or not. When you ask, “Why do we do it this way?” and
the only answer is “Because that’s how it’s always been done,” that rule deserves another look. Knowing less is often an opportunity to do more. I’m no enemy of tradition—indeed, I
believe much of our success at EMP was rooted in our deep love of the history of restaurants and our respect for many of the classic rituals associated with fine dining, even as we
were determined to refresh the model. But a rule borne out of tradition that doesn’t serve the guest—or, worse, one that stands in the way of a staff member being able to cultivate
an authentic relationship with the person they are serving? That wasn’t going to work. In fact, I suspected blind faithfulness to those rules was why so many of those
long-esteemed, established four-star restaurants had closed. Tastes change. My great-grandmother wouldn’t have recognized almost anything on the walls at MoMA as art; two
generations later, I loved it. In the same vein, my friends and I didn’t want to eat at the kind of place where the waiter stood, statue-still, next to our table with his hands
clasped behind his back (and yes, I’m using that “he” deliberately). I wanted to celebrate at a restaurant where the people serving me felt comfortable enough to lean in and
chat—even if it meant putting their hands on the snowy white tablecloth in front of me. As it turned out, hands on the table was the first of many fine-dining rules we would get
rid of at Eleven Madison Park. Fairly soon, we also started to serve our soufflés “wrong.” I’ll spare you the technicalities, but in the classical presentation, the server turns
their body away from the guest, ending up with their elbow near the guest’s face. My way—the “wrong” way—enabled the server to maintain eye contact and a conversation with the
person they were serving, which was the clear priority in my eyes. Later, we’d have cooks run food to the tables in their whites—and they were encouraged to kneel on the ground
when they spieled the dish, if they felt comfortable doing so. They hadn’t done that at Le Pavillon. My unorthodoxy drove the fine-dining crew nuts; how the hell were we supposed
to get another star from The New York Times if we couldn’t even get the basics right? But I wasn’t suggesting you could serve a soufflé any which way; I simply wanted it done in
such a way that tradition didn’t interfere with hospitality. It was a different kind of correct. Similarly, when I first got to Eleven Madison Park, our goodbye gift was a small
bag of canelés. These dark pastries, flavored with rum and vanilla and baked in special copper molds coated with butter and beeswax, are notoriously difficult to make, so the gift
was one last impressive flex as the guest was on their way out the door. To me, this seemed unnecessary. If we hadn’t wowed them with everything they’d experienced over the course
of their meal, then it wasn’t going to happen. In the best-case scenario, those pastries would be gobbled down in the cab on the way home; at worst, the little bag would end up
going stale on the kitchen counter. The canelés were too much about what we wanted to serve and not enough about what our guests might actually want to eat. When you get too caught
up in showing your prowess—“Look at what we can do!”—you’re losing focus on the only thing that matters, which is what will make your customer happy. So we canceled the canelés and
sent our guests home with a jar of granola instead. Because most people don’t eat obscure French pastries for breakfast, but everyone is psyched to sit down to a bowl of granola
and yogurt. It was excellent coconut and pistachio granola, in a jar stamped with our four leaves. (The morning granola was often the last photo in a guest’s Instagram post about
their meal.) But it was also an intentionally humble final touch, designed to make our guests feel that, even after all the sumptuous luxury, they had been welcomed into someone’s
home. In restaurants—and in all customer-service professions—the goal is to connect with people. Hospitality means breaking down barriers, not putting them up! We would spend the
next ten years coming up with systemized and intentional ways to break down those barriers. Some of them were complex, but the first one was easy: Create a genuine relationship,
and do what you need to in order to connect with the people you’re serving. Hire the Person, Not the Résumé In the early days at EMP, I was at the restaurant all the time. It was
good for the people who worked for me to see I was in the trenches with them. I wouldn’t hesitate before jumping in to help, whether that meant lending a hand to clear a table or
attending to a disgruntled guest. Really, though, I was there so that eventually I wouldn’t have to be. At the end of the day, it doesn’t matter how good I am at taking care of
people. This is purely a numbers game; even in a modest-size restaurant, there’s no way one manager can touch every single table or connect with every guest. A leader needs to be
able to trust that their team will operate on the same level as they do. Which meant that if I was going to make any kind of meaningful change, I was going to have to surround
myself with a great team. But as I set out to do that, I made the conscious decision to veer away from servers who had fine-dining experience. Our intention was to usher in a more
elegant style of service, but I found if I hired people who had worked in fine dining, they already had too many bad habits. So we started looking for people with the right
attitude and philosophy of hospitality. We were looking for the kind of person who runs after a stranger on the street to return a dropped scarf, who stops by with a plate of
cookies to welcome a new family to the neighborhood, or who offers to help carry a stranger’s heavy stroller up the subway stairs. The kind of truly hospitable person, in other
words, who wants to do good things, not for financial gain or some sort of karmic bump, but because the idea of bestowing graciousness upon others makes their own day better. So it
didn’t matter if our new hires didn’t know a ton about wine or how to pronounce turbot. If they were excited about what we were up to, then we could teach them what they needed to
know. Fairly quickly, I implemented a new policy: everyone we hired started as a kitchen server, running food from the kitchen to the dining room. This meant they started at the
lowest position in the dining room, even if their previous position had been as a general manager somewhere else. Practically speaking, this helped with the weeding process; if
someone was going to balk at starting out as a kitchen server, they probably weren’t a good fit. And the system helped us to train people in a way that was truly comprehensive,
because what we needed them to know was much bigger than the correct way to open a bottle of wine. It’s a cliché that culture can’t be taught; it has to be caught. And what better
way to appreciate the exquisite nature of Daniel’s food than to spend six months ferrying plates from the kitchen to the table? More important, while we were teaching people the
technical points a little bit at a time, it would give them the opportunity to fully absorb the culture we were building, long before they became point person with a guest. And how
we chose which people to invite onto the team became central to our success. Every Hire Sends a Message You know in the movies when the soldier shouts, “Cover me,” then runs across
the field while his squadron protects him by raining fire on the enemy? A little dramatic for a metaphor about working in restaurants, fine —but if you don’t trust the people
behind you, then you’re never going to perform that huge, heroic hospitality gesture (or even a tiny one) that ultimately saves the day. When EMP was up and running, I felt
confident that the entire team had my back—literally. Let’s say I was clearing a table and a guest started to engage me in conversation. It’s gross to stand there chatting with an
armful of dirty dishes, yet I never wanted to squander an opportunity to connect with a guest. So I’d tuck the dishes behind my back, knowing that no matter how badly my wrists
strained, in a second or two, one of my colleagues would notice and be on their way to grab them from me. That’s one small example, of a thousand that might happen over the course
of an evening, of how a trusting team operates. And it’s why hiring is such a sobering responsibility. Because when you’re hiring, you’re hiring not only the people who are going
to represent and support you, but the people who are going to represent and support the team already working for you. Morale is fickle, and even one individual can have an outsize
and asymmetrical impact on the team, in either direction. Bring in someone who’s optimistic and enthusiastic and really cares, and they can inspire those around them to care more
and do better. Hire someone lazy, and it means your best team members will be punished for their excellence, picking up the slack so the overall quality doesn’t drop. At the end of
the day, the best way to respect and reward the A players on your team is to surround them with other A players. This is how you attract more A players. And it means you must
invest as much energy into hiring as you expect the team to invest in their jobs. You cannot expect someone to keep giving all of themselves if you put someone alongside them who
isn’t willing to do the same. You need to be as unreasonable in how you build your team as you are in how you build your product or experience. It’s also why you’ve got to hire
slow. It’s so dreadful to be shorthanded that managers tend to rush in and find a body to fill the void. I know what it’s like to think, We need someone so desperately—how bad
could this person be? I’ve also (unfortunately) been in a position to find out the answer to that question. It’s more detrimental to saddle yourself and your team with the wrong
person, suffer the damage they do, and then end up right where you started three weeks later. Everyone would rather work a couple of extra shifts a week until you find the right
person. Someone wise once told me, “When you hire, you should ask yourself: Could this person become one of the top two or three on the team? They don’t necessarily have to be all
the way there yet, but they should have the potential to be.” We were gearing up for a big push. I needed to be confident that anyone could shout, “Cover me,” knowing that the rest
of the team would have their back. Build a Cultural Bonﬁre Many people get into restaurant work because it’s a flexible, fun way to pay their bills while they devote time and
energy to whatever it is they really want to do. And at the old EMP, a server could punch the clock, put in their hours, and leave work at work, which made it a great job if you
were also attending art school or planning a Broadway debut. But it was quickly becoming the kind of restaurant that required more, and the food and wine tests provided us with an
efficient way to find out who was up to the challenge and who needed to move on. Some people, from both factions, understood what we were trying to do and decided they wanted to
take the ride with us. Others decided they’d be happier with less of a commitment, which meant we had to replace them. In truth, hiring was hard before we got the culture of the
restaurant fully dialed in. When we had an opening, I’d find someone good to join the team—not necessarily impeccably trained, but energetic and enthusiastic about the mission. But
even if that person was all charged up when they got hired, the residual negativity of some of their colleagues would eventually infect them. The fine-dining crew was still being
snooty, and some of the remaining members of the old guard weren’t ever going to get on board. Three or four times, I hired someone I thought showed promise. But they’d last only a
month before the flame of their enthusiasm dimmed and died, and then they’d quit. So the next time a position opened up, I didn’t race to fill it. Instead, I waited until another
position came open, and then another, and then hired three great people, all at the same time. Instead of one new person cupping their hands, trying to protect the tiny flame of
their enthusiasm, that little crew brought a bonfire no one could put out. In the years to come, I would tell every group at their new-hire meeting, “You are part of a class, just
as if you were starting college. Lean on one another; support one another.” But the first time I ever gave that speech, it was to those three. I wanted them to know that if they
approached their shared experience as a team, the impact they could have on the restaurant would be profound. Make It Cool to Care In high school, the cool kids tend to be the
underachievers. Cool kids don’t study; they don’t care what the teachers think of them. At that age, it’s slicker to hold back, to keep your cards close to your chest so it never
looks like you’re trying too hard. Except that when you grow up a little, you realize the people getting the most out of their lives are the ones who wear their hearts on their
sleeves, the ones who allow themselves to be passionate and open and vulnerable, and who approach everything they love at full-throttle, with curiosity and delight and unguarded
enthusiasm. That was my friend Brian Canlis in a nutshell. I like to say I had two groups of friends in college. One group I played music with and partied with. The other group was
Brian. He had a gecko. He loved playing chess. He wore purple Converse, and he always had a yo- yo on him. He was the complete opposite of all my other friends—and he was more
confident than any of us. Even during our first year in college, when most kids are trying to figure out who they are—and all too often pretending to be things they’re not to fit
in—Brian was uniquely himself. He was unapologetically invested in the things he cared about, and he never let other people’s cynicism or a bad attitude distract him. His energy
set the tone. Which made him the coolest person I knew, despite the fact that nothing about him was objectively cool. We found each other on one of the first days of school and
quickly discovered we’d both grown up in restaurants. In 1950, Brian’s grandfather built the fine-dining restaurant Canlis, which The New York Times later called “Seattle’s
fanciest, finest restaurant for more than 60 years.” His dad, Chris Canlis, ran the restaurant for thirty years before eventually turning it over to Brian and his brother Mark.
(And if you want a case study of how a business can build loyalty and strengthen community in the midst of a restaurant-devastating global pandemic, check out Canlis’s Instagram
account for 2020.) Restaurants aside, Brian and I could not have been more different. Nevertheless, we sat together in every class and worked together on every group project,
including a truly horrendous restaurant test concept named Agave, which featured his gecko, Milo, sitting proudly atop the host stand. I’d always been good at school, but I’d never
had a partner in crime before. With Brian, I didn’t have to worry about being a try-hard, an overachiever—I could go for it, engaging fully in what I was studying. Soon, my other
friends started circling our little group, curious to see if we’d open our study sessions—not just because we were getting great grades, but because we were having a blast getting
them. Brian had made it cool to care. That’s why I thought of him the day I realized caring had become cool at EMP. There was a soup course we did in those early days that took
three people to run for a six-top. If you did it just right, the three runners got to the table at the exact same moment, put the bowls they were holding in their left hands onto
the table, moved one step to the side, switched the bowl that had been in their right hands into their left, and put that bowl down, too. Then, in glorious synchronicity, they
lifted the lids from all six bowls simultaneously. Plenty of fine-dining restaurants feature synchronized service, and most of them made sure that the plates dropped at the same
time. But many times, I’d watched two runners circling the table, waiting for the third one to arrive, so that what was meant to be elegant felt awkward instead. Not the end of the
world, maybe—but not perfect, either. For me, this was important. If we cared about this particular service detail, we should do it just right. Dancers learn choreography so their
movements are precisely coordinated with the people on either side of them, and that was all this was—choreography. The runners bringing up the rear would have to move a little
faster so they’d arrive at the table at the same time as their colleagues in the front, who would in turn move a little more slowly to give their buddies time to catch up. Turn,
drop the first plate, step, switch, drop plate number two, lids. We practiced it. And practiced it, and practiced it, and practiced it. One day, I was running food with two other
people on the team, and we killed it. Our delivery was so perfect you could imagine it filmed from above in one of those 1950s movies where the dancers bloom like flowers. When we
got back into the kitchen, one of the other guys turned to me, a gleeful grin on his face, and gave me the most exuberant high five I’ve ever gotten. We’d nailed it, and he’d
gotten the same dopamine rush from it I had. We were overachievers—we cared—and we were proud of it. The conversations I started overhearing at family meal were changing, too.
People were talking excitedly, not about the new bar or their most recent hookup, but about a table they’d had the night before and how happy they’d been able to make them. They
were talking about hospitality—giving and receiving it. (I was almost more excited to hear them breathlessly sharing details about the meals they’d had at other places—there’s no
more powerful incentive to give great hospitality than to be on the receiving end of it.) And their colleagues were hanging on every word. When you find a group that cares about
the same things you care about, you don’t have to hide your passions —you can sing them from the rooftops. And when the people you work with aren’t hanging back but cranking it all
the way up, then you can meet them there; you don’t have to dim your light to succeed. At EMP, it had become cool to care. CHAPT ER 9 WORKING WITH PURPOSE, ON PURPOSE “THE PLACE
