they’re dumb. To me, the presence of a charger on the table is a textbook example of one of those unexamined fine-dining rules: if they exist only for show, add absolutely nothing
to the guest’s experience, and are taken away immediately, what’s the point? But Daniel, with his classic European background, was adamant that even a beautifully set table looked
undressed without them. We went round and round like this for hours: I thought they were useless; he thought they were beautiful. To break a stalemate, we would sometimes try
swapping sides. It’s easy for passionate people to get entrenched in their respective positions. But you can’t help but connect with a position when you’re arguing for it, and
swapping sides tends to jog you out of a stubborn focus on “your” idea. You can stop worrying about winning and can start thinking about what’s right for the organization.
Unfortunately, in this case, it didn’t work. I don’t remember now who introduced the third option, but eventually one was put on the table—literally and figuratively: What if we
kept the charger but made it useful? We called our brilliant ceramics designer Jono Pandolfi—a friend of mine from high school—who worked with us to design chargers with a
beautiful unglazed circle in the middle. That circle was precisely sized for the foot of the bowl of the amuse-bouche, the single-bite gift from the kitchen that opens a
fine-dining meal. Out of the engagement, the two of us had stumbled upon a more graceful and hospitable solution, one neither of us would ever have come up with on our own. To me,
the symbolism was beautiful. If you were experienced with fine dining, you sat down expecting those chargers to be whisked away. Instead, they stayed on the table, ready to offer
our guests a gift. Daniel got tables dressed with beautiful, custom-made ceramics, and I could rest easy knowing the charger wasn’t superfluous, an empty nod to form, but
graciously poised to receive the guest’s first course. Concede the Win For the winter menu one year, Daniel wanted to do three separate dessert courses after the cheese. I was
worried about dragging out the meal and losing people’s attention. The whey sorbet was utterly delicious, but does anyone really rave about a sorbet course? Couldn’t we—shouldn’t
we— keep it moving? Daniel was adamant. He’d put a lot of work into each one of those dessert courses and had thought seriously about the guest’s experience of the meal.
Eventually, after a lot of back and forth, he said, “It’s important to me.” That was all he needed to say. I went back to the dining room team and told them we’d have to control
the pace on our end by increasing how efficiently we served and bussed those courses. Sometimes, the only way to proceed in pursuit of a good partnership is to decide that whoever
cares more about the issue can have their way. It wasn’t that I didn’t care about how many desserts we served—when you’re intense and detail-oriented, everything matters. But it
was more important to Daniel than it was to me. There was an unwritten corollary to this rule, which is that neither of us could abuse the “It’s important to me” card by pulling it
too many times. Mostly, though, we found that the willingness of the other person to relinquish their own position helped to build trust between us. Sometimes, though, we had to
duke it out. Learn Their Tough-Love Language One of my close friends is an even-tempered, laid-back guy, beloved by the people who work for him. Over dinner one night, he mentioned
he was getting frustrated with one of his employees, who had a nasty habit of undermining new managers by talking smack about them with less senior staff. “I keep telling him that
he can’t continue doing this,” my friend complained, exasperated. “But I found out Friday that he’s gone and done it again. I don’t seem to be getting through to him.” “Have you
tried yelling at him?” I asked. I’ve spent my career crusading against toxic workplace cultures. Certainly, if the last ten years has taught us anything, especially in the
restaurant industry, it’s that company cultures based on abuse and harassment and manipulation are not only awful and unethical, but unstable and inefficient as well. And yet that
doesn’t—in fact, it cannot—mean your culture should be 100 percent sweetness and light. Managing staff boils down to two things: how you praise people, and how you criticize them.
Praise, I might argue, is the more important of the two. But you cannot establish any standard of excellence without criticism, so a thoughtful approach to how you correct people
must be a part of your culture, too. One of Richard Coraine’s most often repeated sayings was “One size fits one.” He was referring to the hospitality experience: some guests love
it when you hang out at the table and schmooze, while others want you to take their order and disappear. It’s your job to read the guest and to serve them how they want to be
served. Similarly, there’s no one-size-fits-all rule for managing people. Gary Chapman saved a lot of romantic relationships with his 1992 book, The Five Love Languages, which
delineates the five general ways people show and prefer to experience love. (They are: acts of service, gift- giving, physical touch, quality time, and words of affirmation.)
Chapman noted that people tend to go wrong by showing love the way they want to receive it. If your partner’s love language is acts of service, for instance, bringing them a cup of
coffee prepared exactly how they like it is going to land better than surprising them with a kiss—even if that’s what you’d most like. Just as certain expressions of love work
better for some people than others, so do different expressions of tough love. I’m not sure there are five tough-love languages, but there are people for whom a polite correction
will not land; those people need a little fire. I knew when we started to work together that Daniel’s managerial style was different from mine. Of course it was! I’d come up in the
lovey-dovey, uber-respectful world of Danny Meyer’s Enlightened Hospitality. Daniel, on the other hand, had been working since the age of fourteen in the aggressive, militant
kitchens of Europe’s three-star Michelin restaurants, where screaming and humiliation—and often worse—were standard workplace conditions. He’d always been on his best behavior when
I was with him, but stories circulated among the staff about his temper, and I’d talked to him a number of times about what I’d heard. “C’mon, man,” I’d say. “You don’t want to be
one of those lunatic chefs.” He’d laugh and agree with me— then, a week later, I’d hear another story about him losing it on someone. One day, I happened to be in the kitchen when
a cook put up an incorrectly plated crab roulade with avocado. Daniel picked the food up with his hands and threw it right back into the cook’s face. My mouth fell open; I could
not believe what I had just seen. It was absolutely unacceptable. I dragged him down the hallway into our office, and, for the first time in my professional career, I screamed at
someone I worked with. “If you’re going to throw food into people’s faces, I want nothing to do with you. You’re incredible, and I love what we’re doing here, but you need to
decide right now what kind of leader you want to be. Because if that’s how your kitchen is going to operate, then you’re doing this without me. You can find somebody else to run
this restaurant with.” I’m good at apologizing when, in the heat of a Friday-night service, my tone betrays any frustration I might be feeling, and there are people who have worked
for me for fifteen years who have never heard me yell—but some have. And in this case, the only way I was going to get through to Daniel was with a confrontation this extreme,
complete with raised voice and an ultimatum I was prepared to follow through on. He never threw a roulade or anything else again. In fact, he tells this story himself in the
limited-edition version of our book Eleven Madison Park: The Next Chapter, citing that incident and my response to it as a turning point. You have to know the people you’re working
with. Some people are totally pragmatic about criticism; correct them privately and without emotion, and they’ll receive the reproach in exactly the spirit in which it’s offered.
Three minutes later, they’ll have apologized for the mistake, taken the note, and the two of you will have moved on to chatting about last night’s Mets game. Other folks are
sensitive to criticism. This isn’t necessarily a negative characteristic—it’s usually an indication they want to do a good job and feel deeply wounded at any suggestion that they
haven’t. But those people are going to react, no matter what you say or how gently and diplomatically you say it, so you’d better spend some time planning exactly how you’re going
to deliver the feedback. And you’d be wise to budget time to spend with them afterward, so you can sit with them and let them know that they’re still loved. Then there are the
people who can’t or won’t hear what you’re saying unless it comes with a little thunder. If your reprimand is too mild and conversational, they won’t believe you’re serious. With
these people, you’re going to have to get into it a little bit, even if that’s not your usual managerial style. My even-tempered friend reported that it had been uncomfortable for
him to raise his voice with the problem employee. But he had, and I was pleased and not surprised to hear that when he did, he’d finally made real headway with the guy. It’s
important to note that even this kind of reproach needs to be delivered, per Ken Blanchard, privately and without emotion. When I dragged Daniel into the office, my voice may have
been loud, but my words were measured; I was emotional about the situation, but that didn’t come through in my delivery. You’re still criticizing the behavior, not the person, and
a raised voice doesn’t mean losing control and raging. (In fact, you absolutely cannot lose control and rage.) It’s simply a different tough- love language, one that’s louder and
sterner than the one you naturally prefer. I should mention here there’s one tough-love language that will never, ever work, and that’s sarcasm. Managers, especially young ones,
will sometimes try to shroud criticism in humor because they’re insecure about delivering a rebuke. But sarcasm is always the wrong medium for a serious communication. It demeans
the person who’s receiving the criticism, the message you’re delivering, and, frankly, you as well. Most of us have no difficulty at all in delivering praise; that’s the fun part
of being a boss. But it’s hard to criticize someone. So I spend a lot of time with my managers talking about criticism—how to deliver it, how to receive it, and maybe most
important, how to think about it. We all want to be liked, and when you give someone a note about what they could be doing differently and better, you run the risk of losing their
goodwill. That’s why I say there is no better way to show someone you care than by being willing to offer them a correction; it’s the purest expression of putting someone else’s
needs above your own, which is what hospitality is all about. Praise is affirmation, but criticism is investment. And this is why it’s so important, no matter where you are in the
hierarchy, to be able to graciously receive criticism, too. It’s natural to bristle a little when you come up short, particularly if you’re an A student who takes pride in your
work. But if your response is consistently defensive, if you always push back or insist on justifying your mistakes, people are eventually going to stop coming to you with notes.
You’ve made it too unpleasant for them to continue, and they’re going to stop investing in you—and you’re going to stop growing as a result. Hire Slow, Fire Fast—But Not Too Fast
One night, a manager reported that he’d caught one of our best captains— I’ll call him Ben—drinking during service. If a restaurant doesn’t allow drinking on the job (and we did
not; some do), this is grounds for immediate dismissal. But instead of immediately telling him to pack his bags, I asked him to sit down and talk to me. “I’m going to ask you not
to lie to me: Were you drinking last night during your shift?” He hung his head. “Yes. I’m sorry, and I completely understand if you fire me over it.” I said, “I’m not firing you
yet, but I’m not happy. You didn’t let me down—or, rather, you didn’t just let me down; you disappointed your entire team. You’re supposed to be a leader, but instead of leading,
you got drunk. “So we can do this one of two ways. You can leave right now—we’ll shake hands, I’ll thank you for all the time you’ve given us and all the people you’ve made happy,
and how much you’ve done to make this restaurant a better place. Then you can clean out your locker and go home. “But if you want to stay, then take tomorrow off, come back the day
after, and apologize to everybody you were working with last night. Tell them what you did, why you realize it’s a mistake, and why you’re sorry. Promise you’ll never do it
again—and know that if you do, I’m going to fire you on the spot.” It wasn’t easy for Ben to have those conversations with his colleagues. He was a tough captain to work for
because his standards were high; if you were in his station, he held you accountable. But there is tremendous power in vulnerability. Because Ben took responsibility, everyone
who’d been furious with him forgave him. A couple of months later, Ben drank again during a shift, and I fired him, as I’d said I would. (I’m happy to report it served as a wake-up
call; he’s in recovery now and has made a notable career for himself in hospitality.) But I have no regrets about giving him a second chance. The people you work with will never be
your actual family. That doesn’t mean that you can’t work harder to treat them like family, which may mean tweaking one of the great management sayings out there, which is “Hire
slow and fire fast.” I do believe, as I’ve already said, in hiring slow. You need to be acutely aware in the first few months if someone joining the team is not the right fit, or
if they’re simply going to need a little extra support to succeed. And you can’t drag your feet unnecessarily on firing someone who’s toxic; you need to get them out before they
poison the balance of the team. At the same time, you would never kick a member of your family out of the house for making a single mistake, would you? So maybe we should amend
that saying to “Hire slow, fire fast—but not too fast.” Create Your Own Traditions In 2007, we opened for Thanksgiving for the first time. Danny’s restaurants had never opened for
any of the major holidays: Thanksgiving, Christmas Eve, Christmas Day, or New Year’s Day. It was a gift from him to his employees, a financial sacrifice so the people who worked
for him could spend time with their loved ones. But I wanted to serve Thanksgiving at Eleven Madison Park. I talked to Paul Bolles-Beaven, one of Danny’s partners, before I
approached Danny. “He’s never going to go for it,” he told me. “This is an important, well-established part of the company culture.” But Danny is always open to being challenged,
and if you come to him with a measured, thoughtful argument, he’ll listen to what you have to say. So I made my case. On the one hand, yes: it’s lovely to have Thanksgiving Day off
to rest and celebrate with your family. But most people who work in New York City restaurants aren’t from New York City, so most of them weren’t able to use that day off to go home
to celebrate anyway. On the other hand, with the money we’d make from staying open and serving all day, we’d be able to afford to close the restaurant the first few days of
January, giving people enough time to go home. We were still giving the staff a gift—but one they could really use. Danny agreed. Danny’s willingness to reevaluate that holiday
policy was a reminder to me that no aspect of your business should be off-limits to reevaluation. I told the staff this story whenever I was encouraging them to come forward with
ideas. “Don’t be shy. Even if we’re proud of the way we do something—even if it feels integral to the restaurant—that doesn’t mean we couldn’t be doing it better: more elegantly,
more efficiently, more creatively. Nothing is sacred.” That first year, Thanksgiving reservations sold out as soon as they were released. It helped that there weren’t that many
great restaurants open for the holiday in New York. It has gone on to be one of the busiest days of the year for us, every year. It was also one of the best days to work, to the
point where the team fought over that shift. I loved it and worked it myself every year; it wasn’t until after I was married that I’d leave before the very end. Daniel had little
experience with this most American of holidays, so we worked with his sous-chefs to develop the menu. We’d hold one long service over the course of the day. And once we were
finished serving the last guests, the entire staff would sit down for our own Thanksgiving dinner. For the team, it would be a real Thanksgiving, as I grew up celebrating it, with
delicious food, family gathered around a table, and words of thanks. We’d push the tables together to make a huge one in the center of that glorious dining room, load our plates,
open some wine, and go around the entire table so everyone could share what they were thankful for. Food for the staff was factored into the kitchen’s preparations for the day. Our
dinner wouldn’t be an afterthought, reheated food that hadn’t made it onto other people’s plates. Instead, we’d enjoy exactly the same meal we’d spent the day giving to others,
served buffet-style. Meanwhile, our wine director, John Ragan, had saved lots of unsolicited bottles that wine reps had dropped off to be sampled, so there would be plenty of good
things to drink. Every Labor Day, Floyd Cardoz and his brilliant wife, Barkha, threw a barbecue at their house in New Jersey for the employees at Tabla. There, Floyd would trade
his crisp chef whites for a decidedly uncool suburban- dad outfit while he was manning the grill, but seeing him that way only made us respect him more. He showed me by example
that I could be myself without losing any of my credibility as an authority figure and a boss—and that I should. That first Thanksgiving, and every one after, I gave the first
toast. I spoke from the heart. I told them I was grateful to finally be in a place where I didn’t need to hide my neuroses, or to be embarrassed about them. That got a laugh, not
only because everyone there had been on the receiving end of my perfectionism, but also because everyone around that table had spent some portion of their working lives pretending
they didn’t care as much as they did, for fear of being mocked. At EMP, we all felt like we belonged. Every day, our colleagues challenged us to be better, instead of
always—always—the other way around. Then we went around the table, and everyone took a turn. It didn’t hurt that the wine was flowing; even those who ordinarily played their cards
close to their chest started sharing. It was incredible to watch people seize the opportunity to be open and emotional with their peers. People who are gifted at hospitality tend
to be sensitive. They notice everything, feel deeply, and care a lot. These are superpowers, though that tenderness can also make them a handful to manage. I’ve heard many
frustrated managers complain about these employees: “They’re so needy! They need so much reinforcement! I have to walk them through every decision; I have to hold their hands
through every change!” But these tendencies are often what make these people so good at their work; they need to have delicate antennae. It takes compassion to know when a guest is
intimidated by the room—and a light touch to dial back the formality so they don’t feel condescended to. If a server’s Spidey sense tells them a table is getting frustrated by how
long the food is taking, they can check on the entrée and apologize before the guest has even complained. And a server who is preternaturally alert to other people will realize
there’s tension at a table as soon as they approach; they can then pace the courses so the guests can resolve the issue between them before moving on to enjoying the rest of their
meal. I knew these sensitive people needed extra time and love. But those Thanksgiving toasts created a space where the staff could be vulnerable with their peers, and they needed
that, too. If you don’t create room for the people who work for you to feel seen and heard in a team setting, they’ll never be fully known by the people around them. Establishing
your own traditions, as we did with Thanksgiving, is part of a layered and nuanced culture. One of my dad’s quotes I love the most is: “The secret to happiness is always having
something to look forward to.” This was one of the reasons, aside from the fear and grief, that people had such a hard time during the COVID lockdowns. With no theater or sports
events or even a date-night dinner to look forward to, it was hard to keep your spirits up. It’s true within organizations, too, especially when you’re hustling. We’d pushed hard
for three stars, but it was nothing in comparison to how we’d push later. Every year, we needed something to look forward to, and Thanksgiving became one of the beautiful
traditions we could count on. These new-fashioned traditions are essential to a healthy culture, but— ugh, birthday cake in the break room—they tend not to stick unless people
enjoy and look forward to them. New traditions work only if they’re authentic—if they fill a real purpose and satisfy a real need. This was definitely key to our Thanksgiving
success, as restaurant workers on major holidays tend to feel a little like the Lost Boys from Peter Pan—hungry and unloved. The meals restaurant staff share together before
service is called family meal, though it usually feels more like a bunch of colleagues hurriedly shoving calories into themselves before setting the dining room. That Thanksgiving,
for the first time, we did feel like a family sitting down together to eat. CHAPT ER 13 LEVERAGING AFFIRMATION FOUNDED IN 1954, Relais & Châteaux is an association of some of the
best independent restaurants and hotels in the world. You pay to be a part of it, but you have to be accepted, and the guidelines are notoriously stringent. Most Relais properties
are historic landmarks, and the restaurants they include are excellent. To give you an idea of the company we were hoping to keep: when we applied, the American restaurants on the
list included the French Laundry, Daniel, Le Bernardin, the Inn at Little Washington, Jean-Georges, and Per Se. Michelin stars and New York Times reviews aren’t honors you can ask
for; you work hard, try to be the best you can be, and hope they show up to evaluate you. But you apply to Relais when you think you’re ready, and in 2008, Daniel and I thought we
were. The three-star New York Times review we’d gotten had been great for business and for our morale. And while we weren’t shy about the fact that we were gunning for four stars,
it’s usually at least five years between reviews. In order to maintain our momentum, we wanted another respected, external entity to say, “This is one of the great restaurants in
America,” and there weren’t many outlets that could do that. But when we asked Danny if we could apply, he said no. “Sorry, guys, but we’re not ready; I think we need to wait
another year.” We went away, tails tucked between our legs; Danny had said we weren’t ready, and who would know better than him? Except I couldn’t let it go. Every night on the
floor during service, I saw what a great job the team was doing—and I was convinced he was wrong. So I went back and asked again, “Are you telling me we can’t apply? Or that we
shouldn’t?” It took a lot for me to ask. The words, as soon as they came out of my mouth (and despite my intentions!), sounded confrontational. But I trusted Danny to know I was
coming from a good place—that we were proud of what we were up to at Eleven Madison Park and ambitious enough to want the rest of the world to see it. He did. As always, Danny
trusted us: “I’m not in it the way you’re in it, and the fact that you’re back here challenging me tells me you know something I don’t. If you guys think you’re ready and want to
do it, go ahead.” So we applied—only to get an email informing us that, in between asking Danny and asking him again, we’d missed the deadline. It would be a whole year before we
could apply again. A few days later, I was catching up with Daniel Boulud, whose encouragement had been our initial inspiration to apply. “We missed the application deadline by a
week,” I told him. “We’re going to have to wait until next year.” “No, no, no,” he said. “That’s not right. Let me see if I can help.” He called me a couple of days later and, in
an act of great kindness, offered to reach out to Relais & Châteaux to say he thought we were ready. He said he’d need other chefs to do it with him if it was going to have any
effect and that—he was polite about this—they’d all need to come in for a meal, to ensure they could stand behind the recommendation. Which is how Daniel Boulud, Thomas Keller of
the French Laundry, and Patrick O’Connell of the Inn at Little Washington ended up coming in for dinner a week later. It’s impossible to overstate the impact this trio sitting at
table 74 had on the staff. Imagine David Bowie, Mick Jagger, and Paul McCartney hanging out and drinking wine at your workplace—for us, this was even bigger. Seeing them there was
huge for me and for Daniel, but the staff was over the moon. I realized why: Daniel and I were doing charity dinners and events with other restaurateurs; we were going to the James
Beard Awards with chefs and sommeliers from around the country. We were increasingly out in the world, hearing directly from people we admired that they were inspired by what we
were up to. The two of us had made an effort to bring that excitement back to the staff. If we got good press, I read the article out loud at pre-meal; if a guest sent a gushing
email or if another restaurateur paid us a compliment, I read the emails. The first time Daniel Boulud mentioned he thought we should apply to Relais, I was so excited, I could
hardly wait for pre-meal to tell the team how proud I was of everything they’d accomplished. But when these three luminaries were sitting in our restaurant, doling out compliments
to the team, I saw how meaningful it was for them to hear that praise directly from the source. After that night, I started leveraging as much external affirmation for the team as
I could. Share the Spotlight When I was working at MoMA, a little write-up about Café 2 in Time Out New York mentioned me by name. In the grand scheme of things, a quarter-page
piece in a weekly listings magazine is not a major media splash. But it was the first time my name had been mentioned in the press, and I was really proud. I went to the newsstand
and bought multiple copies, including one to send to my dad. As EMP started getting more and more press, I made sure to turn the spotlight on those who deserved it, making them the
stars of the show. If a PR person reached out about our beer program, I put them in touch with Kirk Kelewae, the guy who ran it, and made sure it was Kirk’s name that appeared in
the subsequent article. Not only did this ensure Kirk was getting the credit he so richly deserved, but it got everyone else on the team thinking, Wait a minute! I want that kind
of recognition, too. Unfortunately, the opposite problem happens so often, it needs to be addressed directly: Don’t take credit for other people’s work. I can’t count the number of
times I’ve opened Bon Appétit or Food & Wine to see a chef offering a recipe one of their talented sous-chefs came up with, or an owner bragging about developing a beverage program
that has their sommelier’s fingerprints all over it. One particularly brazen example: I was scrolling through Instagram one afternoon and stumbled on a post by a famous chef—a
photo of his “inspiration” for one of his restaurant’s most gorgeous signature dishes. Nobody was surprised when, a short while later, the brilliant sous-chef who’d actually come
up with every aspect of the dish—including its trademark presentation—left for an opportunity at another restaurant. I get plenty of media attention, and I don’t need the world to
think I’m a genius about beer when I basically couldn’t have told you the difference between a pilsner and a Dr Pepper before Kirk got ahold of me. In fact, as a leader, I’d rather
get attention for creating the conditions that enabled Kirk to put together an award-winning beer program. Friends in management positions at other restaurants thought my strategy
was misguided. “They’re gonna get poached,” they warned me every time someone on my staff got a complimentary write-up. They were right, in a way; the more attention people got,
the more job offers they got, too. But I prefer to make decisions based on hope, rather than fear. The onus was on me to take such great care of my people they wouldn’t want to
leave. In general, it worked—probably because it was clear we were gearing up for greatness, and the talented people we’d hired could smell that in the air. Sometimes people we
directed attention toward did end up leaving us. My philosophy was: so be it. People are going to move on, and I’d rather they leave feeling like heroes. Alums of our restaurant,
out there doing extraordinary work? That was good for us, too. It was worth the risk, because the more mini-celebrities I had on staff, the longer the line of people outside was,
banging on the door to work with us. And it relieved the pressure on me and Daniel, too, because with every article, the likelihood increased that a guest who came to the
restaurant would have contact with a staff member they’d heard of or read about. It’s not lost on me that not all businesses have the relationship with the media that restaurants
do. But every business has external stakeholders, whether those are board members, social media followers, or members of the community you belong to. When someone out there catches
your company doing something right, leverage it, and when that external affirmation comes, direct it to the people responsible. If a distributor compliments you on always getting
your orders in on time, ask them to say it again once you’ve gotten the person responsible on the phone. If an investor notes that the reports you send are always timely and
detailed and clear, grab the accountant who puts those reports together and pull them into the meeting so they can bask in the praise. Use Every Tool in Your Tool Kit When a server
or one of the managers pulled off an amazing act of hospitality, I made sure the higher-ups at Union Square Hospitality Group knew all about it. Yes, it was a means to stay in
touch, to let them know we had it on lock; I didn’t mind reporting that my team was killing it. But forwarding an email we’d gotten from a thrilled customer wasn’t about making
myself look good; it was a way to arm Danny with information he could use the next time he stopped by. If I’d forwarded a rave from a guest about the charming and attentive service
they’d received, Danny could pull aside the responsible captain to say thanks. If he knew a reservationist had gone above and beyond to secure a table for a special anniversary, he
could compliment her directly on the job she’d done. As a leader, you have to use every single tool in your kit to build morale and keep it high. This is a constant quest for a
manager, a daily pursuit—and it’s hard to do. I like to think my team respected me and were inspired by me, and that a word of affirmation from me went a long way. But the reality
was that we spent all day every day together, and no compliment I could give would have the impact of one from someone in a more senior position. Especially when the head of the
company was Danny Meyer, whom everybody loved and respected so much. It’s common for a leader to want the people on their team to see them as the ultimate authority figure and to
box out their bosses as a result. That’s a lack of confidence, and it’s shortsighted. Randy Garutti, my old boss from Tabla, never worried I had less respect for him because Danny
Meyer praised me; if anything, he could see I worked harder as a result of it. I knew better than anyone that a word of thanks from Danny was rocket fuel. Rather than feel insecure
about that, why not use it to our collective advantage? So I kept forwarding those emails, making sure to gather a plentiful supply of that fuel for the people who worked for me.
Persistence and Determination Alone Are Omnipotent Hosting Daniel Boulud, Thomas Keller, and Patrick O’Connell had everyone walking a little taller. Being unreasonable was working,
and the team could feel it. Those three chefs could feel it, too. All three sent letters to Relais & Châteaux, saying we were one of the great restaurants in New York, and it would
be a mistake to wait another year before evaluating us. (Ironically, with three of the most renowned chefs in America writing us personal recommendation letters, we had a stronger
application as latecomers than we would have had if we’d made the deadline in the first place.) Relais sent an anonymous reviewer; we had no idea who they were or when they
visited. Apparently, though, they had a good time, because we found out a few months later we’d been accepted to the association. It was a tremendous honor to hang that plaque
outside the restaurant— and deeply meaningful for Daniel, who had come up in Europe, where the award is even more esteemed. It was also the first time any organization of
significance had put us on the same level as restaurants like Daniel and Le Bernardin and Jean-Georges and Per Se. Another plaque had come into my life, earlier. When I was little,
my dad gave me one engraved with his favorite quote, from Calvin Coolidge. I had it hanging in my childhood bedroom, then in my college dorm room; I have it still, hanging here
above my desk. It reads: Nothing in this world can take the place of persistence. Talent will not; nothing is more common than unsuccessful men with talent. Genius will not;
unrewarded genius is almost a proverb. Education will not; the world is full of educated derelicts. Persistence and determination alone are omnipotent. It would have been easy to
give up on Relais & Châteaux after Danny said we weren’t ready. And yes, it would have been absolutely mortifying if we’d gotten rejected after I’d pushed him to let us apply. But
you don’t reach the top by taking no for an answer, especially not the first time you get it. We needed to be willing to fail. Our acceptance into Relais & Châteaux added
immeasurably to our momentum; their affirmation encouraged a lot of people to give us a fresh look. We leveraged that accolade, and it helped take us further down the road. And
seeing the effect those three chefs in our dining room had on the team showed me how valuable affirmation could be for our culture, if we leveraged it. Sure, receiving praise feels
good, but the dopamine hit lasts only so long. Being intentional in using that praise to encourage, inspire, and uplift our team could shift us into a whole new gear. CHAPT ER 14
RESTORING BALANCE AMBITION IS AN EXTRAORDINARY THING, a nuclear reactor that provides unlimited amounts of energy. Getting accepted into Relais & Châteaux gave us a taste of
success, and we wanted more . . . a lot more. It was 2008. I was twenty-eight years old. I wasn’t married; I didn’t have any kids yet. Eleven Madison Park was everything to me. I
wasn’t alone; the entire leadership team was consumed by ambition. We were working all the time, driven by the force of all the unreasonable goals we’d set for ourselves and for
the restaurant. We wanted EMP to be a four-star restaurant, not a very good three-star restaurant. And because of how badly we wanted to achieve that goal and the passion we were
bringing to our pursuit of it every single day, the team was right there with us, throwing all of themselves into the work, too. The entire dining room team was so polished, so
eager, it became almost a game to see what tiny service detail we could improve by making it more complicated. In the kitchen, Daniel and his team were adding ever more intricate
components to the dishes. Prep lists were getting longer, techniques more complex. We were all doing whatever it took to push the experience to the next level. We were on fire.
Then, one night at eleven p.m., a cook who worked the morning shift ran through the doors in a panic. In her sleeplessness and stress and disorientation, she thought she was two
hours late for her nine a.m. shift; in reality, she was ten hours early. There had probably been other indications we were going too fast, but that one made us pull up and say
whoa. In that moment it became clear: our ambition had gotten the better of us. The nuclear reactor was melting down. Much is written about how leaders need to have the vision to
look ahead; in my opinion, not enough is written about how leaders also need to have the awareness to look down, to see what’s really beneath their feet. Like Wile E. Coyote, we’d
been so focused on catching the Road Runner, we’d run right off the cliff without realizing it. We’d been so focused on managing the guest experience, we’d forgotten to manage our
culture. We’d lost our balance, and we needed to get it back. Slow Down to Speed Up Kevin Boehm, the CEO and cofounder of Chicago’s Boka restaurant group, spoke movingly at the
Welcome Conference about a difficult period he’d gone through at precisely the moment when everything in his life seemed to be going beautifully. He told a captivated room how he’d
spent his whole life raising his hand to say yes and how he’d mistakenly come to believe this was why he was depressed and anxious. What he came to realize, though, was this: I can
only be authentic and inspirational and restorative if I buy back the time to restore myself. . . . This is not a passive pursuit; it’s active. The things I can control—
mindfulness, diet, exercise, attitude, and whom I choose to spend my time with—those things take priority over all others. So when I do raise my hand, I’m armed with the mental
fortitude to make sure that my ambition doesn’t undermine the clarity that got me all these killer opportunities in the first place. When I heard this, I felt a shock of
recognition. The safety instructions the flight attendant delivers before takeoff are clear: “Put your own oxygen mask on first before assisting others.” But when you’re in the
hospitality industry, that instruction can feel counterintuitive. Aren’t we supposed to put others first and attend to them before we attend to ourselves? The answer is no. If you
aren’t tending to your own needs, you can’t help those around you. Pride and ambition motivated us to push—to tweak, to optimize, to work harder, demanding more of ourselves and
those around us each day. But you can’t pour endlessly from your own pitcher without ever stopping to refill it. So, with some deliberation—and even a little sadness—Daniel and I
decided we needed to slow down. We stopped changing the menu as frequently, so everyone had more time to catch up. We hired more people, so the existing staff wouldn’t be spread
too thin. We cut many of the flourishes we’d added to service. To give one small example, we’d been pouring many of the sauces and adding additional components to the dishes
