equally and instantly adored by the critics and by the crowds. The museum cafés, meanwhile, were the redheaded stepchildren of USHG, and I loved it. We were flying under the radar
and had lots of creative freedom as a result. I immediately set out to implement my vision: to make the cafés at MoMA corporate-smart and restaurant-smart. But what I discovered
almost immediately is that walking that line is really, really hard. Every decision I made seemed to expose the natural tensions between improving the quality of the experience the
guests were having and doing what was best for the business. Restaurant-smart meant leading with trust —including allowing the people who worked for me to do what they felt was
best for the guests. Corporate-smart meant running a tight ship. Which was right? One example, of many: our food costs in the cafeterias were high, largely because of waste; we
refilled the prepared-food cases with fresh items right up until we closed, which meant we threw out a ton of food at the end of the day. The obvious solution was to stop
restocking the cases at the end of the day, but I hated the thought of latecomers settling for whatever sandwich or salad happened to be left over. Hani would probably have sat
down with the chef, Meg Grace, to explain why she had to use ham instead of prosciutto. But that wasn’t the relationship I had with Meg, and it wasn’t what either of us wanted for
our guests, either. Meg and I found a compromise we could both live with: she’d keep using expensive ingredients, and we’d stop topping up the cases an hour or so before we
closed—instead, we’d make all the salads and sandwiches on the menu to order for people who came in during that final hour. The labor costs were more than offset by what we saved
on wasted food. It was a step in the right direction, if not a perfect solution; I did miss the orderly abundance of a fully replenished case. But the experience showed me that
creativity was going to be the main ingredient in striking a true balance between restaurant-smart and corporate-smart. The Rule of 95/5 MoMa’s Sculpture Garden is a unique New
York space. Originally opened in 1939, it was redesigned in 1953 by Philip Johnson (who also designed the Four Seasons) as a “roofless room”—an ever-changing outdoor gallery that
would combine nature with architecture and art in a brand-new way. Massive sculptures rest on graceful, asymmetrical marble-paved areas, while birds sing from the plantings as if
they don’t know they’re in the middle of Midtown. There’s nothing remotely like it in the city. About a year into my job at MoMA, I was starting to get a little restless. I missed
the energy of the opening; there’s something magical about bringing a new idea to life, and I wanted that experience again. So I became completely, utterly obsessed with designing
a gelato cart for the Sculpture Garden. Since the cart would be sharing space with artwork by Henry Moore, Pablo Picasso, and Henri Matisse, not to mention rotating installations
by contemporary artists like Richard Serra, everything about it would have to be perfect. I needed the right partner, so I reached out to another notorious perfectionist: Jon
Snyder, who owns il laboratorio del gelato, a company on the Lower East Side that makes small batches of dense, world-class gelato from chef-quality ingredients. Jon jumped at the
chance to be the official ice cream of MoMA’s Sculpture Garden. Given the high-profile nature of the opportunity, I convinced him to pay for the cart and to give us a
bargain-basement deal on his ordinarily very expensive gelato. (At that volume, he’d still do very well.) We threw ourselves into the project. Jon proved to be an extremely
dangerous co-conspirator. For example, he found a company in Italy making amazing, tiny blue spoons. How amazing could a plastic spoon possibly be? You’re going to have to trust me
on this: they were paddle- shaped, extraordinarily well designed, and completely unique. They were also preposterously, heartbreakingly expensive. But I had to have them; the
Sculpture Garden deserved them. Nothing else would do. The first time my boss saw one of those spoons, she narrowed her eyes and asked me what they had cost. I told her, and her
eyes got even narrower: “We’ll talk about this later.” But a month later, we sat down to review the first P&L for the cart, and I never heard another word about those spoons. I’d
managed 95 percent of my budget aggressively, leveraging MoMA’s brand to get excellent gelato at a steep discount, and the beautiful cart for free. I’d earned the right to splurge
on those spoons, the one small detail I believed would dramatically transform the experience of getting an ice cream at the cart. This is what I would later call the Rule of 95/5:
Manage 95 percent of your business down to the penny; spend the last 5 percent “foolishly.” It sounds irresponsible; in fact, it’s anything but. Because that last 5 percent has an
outsize impact on the guest experience, it’s some of the smartest money you’ll ever spend. This was affirmed for me one afternoon when I watched Glenn Lowry, the head of the
museum, buy gelato for a group of visiting curators. Every single one of them spent a second or two admiring the spoons. I’d like to think some museumgoers went back to the cart
for seconds, just because they loved that spoon. The Rule of 95/5 would turn out to be one of my central operating principles at Eleven Madison Park. Wine pairings—a taste of wine
to accompany each course in a tasting menu—are common in fine dining. And, as with everything, there was a budget for what we could spend on those pairings. But instead of
splitting that budget evenly across all the wines we served, which is how it’s often done, I’d ask our sommeliers to select slightly less expensive wines for the majority of the
courses (these were no less excellent, because our wine director was so expert and our cellar was so diverse). Then, at the end, we could splurge on one special, rare, and more
expensive glass. If you love wine, it’s always exciting to drink Grand Cru Burgundy. But the chance to do so almost never happens during ordinary wine pairings— so imagine how
excited our guests were when it did! The Rule of 95/5 gave us the ability to surprise and delight everyone that ordered those pairings, making it an experience they would never
forget. The Rule of 95/5 extended to how we managed staffing expenses, too. My experience in Hani’s office was never far from my mind when I was dealing with personnel; wherever we
could, we worked to minimize expensive turnover and the dreaded overtime. But then, a few times a year, I would spend a truly obnoxious amount of money on an experience for the
team, whether that meant closing the restaurant for a day so we could host a team-building retreat or hiring a DJ and buying a couple of cases of Dom Pérignon for the over-the-top
staff parties we were famous for. The Rule of 95/5 ensured that I wasn’t blowing the budget; I could afford these indulgences because I’d been so disciplined the rest of the year.
And when, at EMP, we threw ourselves into the concept of Unreasonable Hospitality, that 5 percent worked harder than it ever had before. One of my favorite examples: a family of
four from Spain was dining with us on the last night of their New York City vacation. The children at the table were incandescent with excitement, and for the most wonderful
reason: thick snow was falling past our massive windows, and they’d never seen real snow before. Spur of the moment, I sent someone out to buy four brand-new sleds. After their
meal was over, we had a chauffeur-driven SUV whisk the whole family up to Central Park for a special nightcap: a few hours of play in the freshly fallen snow. That 5 percent, spent
“foolishly” (really, with tremendous intention), allowed us to create those special memories for our guests. This rule played a huge role in my success, and its lineage can be
traced directly back to the amazing education I received in the basements and back offices at Restaurant Associates. My dad, per usual, was right; I’m so glad he encouraged me to
take that leap. My experience at MoMA showed me that it was possible to be corporate-smart and restaurant-smart at the same time. The team was empowered, the guests were happy, and
we were running a lean, mean, profitable business. Then Danny asked to meet with me again. CHAPT ER 6 PURSUING A TRUE PARTNERSHIP EVERYONE WHO WAS ANYONE IN Hollywood ate lunch at
Spago, the crown jewel of an empire presided over by Chef Wolfgang Puck, who had revolutionized American dining by popularizing California cuisine. I spent the summer there between
high school and college, working as a busboy. Half a busboy, actually. Spago was a well-oiled machine, and the bussers were impossibly fast and clean and efficient. Since I could
never hope to keep up with them, they gave me half a station; every other busser had fourteen tables, while I had seven. I did half the side work—the behind-the-scenes maintenance
work required to keep a restaurant running smoothly, like polishing glassware and folding napkins—and received half the tips. My dad had gotten me the job, so the team would have
been well within their rights to roll their eyes while they were hazing me, but I was so excited to be there and worked so hard that everyone treated me like a kid brother. Then,
one afternoon during a busy lunch, I opened the door to the credenza in the dining room where the clean silverware, napkins, and plates were kept. The cabinet had been stocked so
that a tall stack of bread and butter plates leaned precariously against the closed door; as soon as I opened it, those plates slid to the ground and shattered into a million
pieces. The crash was deafening, and the bustling restaurant fell silent for a second or two. A few people clapped. The noise, the waste, the mess, the mistake—I was horrified. I
certainly didn’t need anyone else to be mad at me. Nevertheless, the kitchen doors flew open, and the chef de cuisine charged out of the kitchen, already screaming. At the top of
his lungs and in front of everyone—my colleagues and all the guests—he told me exactly what he thought about my clumsiness. The memory of the shame and rage I felt that day will
always be on my shoulder when I’m handling a mistake made by someone on my own team. I never forget how much impact—for good or for bad—a gesture by a leader can have. And the
big-picture message the chef de cuisine was sending was very clear: he didn’t respect me or anyone else working in the dining room. In his view, fine dining was all about the food;
we were just there in service of whatever magic he was making in the kitchen. And I thought that sucked. The duck I’d eaten at that dinner with my dad at the Four Seasons had been
delicious, but it was part of a much bigger picture—the spectacular room, the artwork, the lighting, the floral arrangements, the tablecloths, the silverware, the staff’s crisp
uniforms—and the way the team had made twelve-year-old me feel like the most important person in the room. That combination had created an atmosphere of pure magic. The food was
part of that magic, but it wasn’t everything. For most of the twentieth century, when you went out to dinner, you went to see and be seen; the chef ’s name wasn’t on the menu.
Beginning in the 1980s, though, with the advent of the celebrity chef, the pendulum had swung toward the kitchen. People were eating better food than ever before, but hospitality
had taken a hit. I don’t personally enjoy my steak well done, but I’ll defend your right to order it that way without finding yourself on the receiving end of a contemptuous
sneer—or, in some places, the kitchen’s flat-out refusal to prepare it that way. I loved restaurants, and I wanted to work with a team to take great care of the people we were
serving. But I’d accepted that the highest level of fine dining wasn’t for me. So when, at our meeting, Danny asked what I’d think about becoming the general manager at Eleven
Madison Park, I wasn’t sure what to say. Never Say Never Eleven Madison Park was in the same building as my old haunt Tabla, yet it could not have been more different. The landmark
Art Deco building had been designed as a home for the Metropolitan Life Insurance Company. Had it been built as planned, it would have been the tallest skyscraper in the world. But
the Great Depression hit right after construction began in 1929, and only thirty of the intended hundred-plus stories were built. So the lobby spaces on the ground floor, where the
restaurants were located, were outrageously grand —they’d been imagined for a building three times the size. At Tabla, that vertical space had been split in half. But Eleven
Madison Park had been designed for impact; there, the ceilings soared. The word I always return to when I describe EMP’s room is significant. Another way to say it: the first time
you walk into the space, your jaw drops. The scale is astonishing—thirty-five-foot ceilings, terrazzo floors stretching out in front of you for days, and massive, two-story-tall
windows looking out onto Madison Square Park. When you cross the threshold, you feel that you are standing in a living slice of New York’s vibrant past, in a room that captures the
spirit of a lost age. A space like this will not—cannot—be re-created in our time; nothing like it will ever be built again. Danny had created a successful brasserie there, the
kind of humming, convivial French restaurant where you knew your martini would be icy cold and the steak frites would be delicious. He’d outfitted the room with black leather
banquettes and commissioned the artist Stephen Hannock to make an enormous piece for the back wall. Massive floral arrangements anchored the two dining rooms, and waiters bustled
through them bearing classic, sturdy, red-rimmed plates loaded with côte de boeuf and other French standards. People loved that version of Eleven Madison Park, but Danny always
felt a nagging disconnect between the room and the purpose he’d given it. Guests felt it, too. They booked tables to celebrate significant anniversaries and birthdays; they brought
engagement rings so they could propose there. Which was weird, because at the time, EMP wasn’t a special-occasion restaurant—except it felt like it was. The room’s magnificence and
over-the-top drama seemed to demand you dress up and celebrate an occasion, not order a burger. EMP had opened in 1998 to a two-star review from The New York Times. And after
receiving another middling two-star review in 2006, Danny set out to reconcile what had long bothered him and asked Richard Coraine to travel around the country to find a chef who
could make food elevated enough to match that spectacular room. Daniel Humm was only twenty-nine, but he’d started cooking professionally in some of the finest Swiss hotels and
restaurants at fourteen and earned his first Michelin star at the age of twenty-four. His cooking at Campton Place had earned the restaurant four stars from the San Francisco
Chronicle in a review that raved about his contemporary take on technique-driven European cuisine. The story is that Richard didn’t even make it all the way through his meal at
Campton Place before stepping outside to call Danny: “I think I’ve found our guy.” Daniel had hit the ground running at EMP, which meant the food was terrific, and getting better
every day. But the restaurant as a whole wasn’t working. The general manager had been hired from another restaurant group, and his approach wasn’t meshing well with the existing
staff, the new chef, or the culture of Union Square Hospitality Group. So, a few months in, Daniel told Danny he thought the restaurant needed a new GM. Danny agreed, as long as
the new person came from within the company. To which Daniel said, “Okay. What about Will?” The two of us didn’t really know each other, but every week, the general managers and
chefs of USHG met around the big table in the boardroom at the offices in Union Square. At the end of the meeting, everyone would share their pet projects, and while I was the
youngest person in the room, I was so excited about everything we were doing at MoMA, I talked more than anyone else there: “Guys, we got this amazing matte-black BUNN
coffeemaker!” “I’m throwing a company-wide competition for best barista. Send your team, because I convinced a coffee company to donate a trip to Italy as a prize!” “You guys have
to hear about this gelato cart—seriously, have you ever seen anything as perfect as this tiny blue spoon?” Daniel was probably irritated by how much I talked in those meetings, but
he could sense a passion that made him think I might be a good match for the task ahead. Meanwhile, I was blindsided by Danny’s offer—and not immediately thrilled. I wasn’t sure
about fine dining at all, and he was talking about sending me to the restaurant that he was trying to make into the finest dining–est restaurant in the company? I called my dad. “I
don’t know about this,” I told him. “No matter how amazing a chef is, I don’t want to work for one. It’s got to be a partnership: I can’t work with someone if they don’t respect
what we’re doing in the dining room.” My dad has always said: Run toward what you want, as opposed to away from what you don’t want. So he asked me straight-out: “What’s your dream
job?” I knew the answer to that immediately. “I want to run Shake Shack.” At the time there was only one, but I was obsessed with it. I loved the concept and the food.
(ShackBurger, cheese fries with the cheese on the side, and a Coke. I’m still obsessed with Shake Shack.) My dad said, “You love working for Union Square Hospitality Group. Do you
want to grow with that company?” I told him I did. “Well, if you want them to be there for you when you need them, then you need to be there for them when they need you.” I went
back to Danny with a proposal. “I’ll be the GM of Eleven Madison Park for one year—if, at the end of that year, I can go work at Shake Shack.” He agreed. Make Decisions Together
The next step was a meeting between Daniel and me, and I was really nervous about it. I’d run away from a certain level of fine dining because of the supremacy of the chef. My
experience was not unique: in that world, there seemed to be an inherent divide between the people who cooked the food and those who served it. We were all part of the same team,
but it usually didn’t feel that way. One side or the other always seemed to be winning the tug-of-war—and in fine dining, the victor was usually the chef. If I was going to go to
Eleven Madison Park, I needed to know Daniel was willing to approach our partnership in a new way. We met at Crispo, a lively Italian restaurant on Fourteenth Street, where we
discovered a mutual love of pasta and Barolo. There were some similarities between us. I’d been working in restaurants since I was fourteen; so had he. We were both perfectionists,
passionate about what we did, and unapologetically ambitious. There were some major differences, too. Daniel had come up in Europe, working in extremely classic, Michelin
three-star restaurants, while I’d been inventorying walk-in refrigerators at Restaurant Associates and learning a warmer, more relaxed form of hospitality under Danny Meyer. So we
looked at the world—especially the world of hospitality—in very, very different ways. Ultimately, though, we felt our differences would be complementary. We ended the night at a
Dominican bar, two doors down from Crispo, drinking beers until late. It was there I told Daniel why I was so uncomfortable with the concept of fine dining. “I love hospitality,” I
told him. “I want to make people happy. And I don’t want to have to spend my whole life convincing you what I do is as important as what you do. If it’s not a partnership—if what
happens in the dining room doesn’t matter as much as what happens in the kitchen—then I don’t even want to start down this road.” More open communication between the kitchen and
the dining room made sense to Daniel, too. He’d worked at one European restaurant where the culinary team hadn’t been allowed in the dining room at all. Another installed a
plexiglass window over the pass (the area in the kitchen where food is plated and finished before it’s taken to the dining room), so the service team couldn’t speak to the people
working in the kitchen; instead, they communicated through notes. That one hurt. The kitchen staff doesn’t see the guests’ faces light up with anticipation and appreciation when
food arrives at the table, as servers and runners do; they don’t see a diner swooning with pleasure at that first perfect bite. A chef shouldn’t have to check the plates coming
back to the dishwashing station to know whether a table liked their food. By the time Daniel and I parted ways that night, slightly worse for wear, we’d made a decision that would
guide our company’s trajectory over the course of its lifetime: we’d decided we would be a restaurant run by both sides of the wall. A restaurant driven by the chef was always
going to do what was best for the food, while one driven by the restaurateur would always do what was best for the service. But if we had to make decisions together, we decided, we
would end up with what was best for the restaurant as a whole. CHAPT ER 7 SETTING EXPECTATIONS “TO BE THE FOUR-STAR RESTAURANT for the next generation.” That was our first mission
statement at Eleven Madison Park, and the one Daniel and I came up with most organically, over those first beers at the Dominican bar and any number of late nights after that. At
the time, the fine-dining scene in New York was in flux. Many of the old-school, classic white-tablecloth establishments in New York, like Lutèce and La Caravelle, had closed;
people, especially younger people, didn’t want that kind of stuffy formality anymore. Some high-end restaurants were thriving, but even the ones we loved, like Jean-Georges and
Daniel and Per Se and Le Bernardin, were owned and run by people twenty-odd years older than we were. While they had legions of devoted regulars, those restaurants were stalwarts,
not the vanguard. Beloved as they were, they weren’t at the center of the conversation. Meanwhile, Daniel and I were in our twenties, and people our age were most excited about
places characterized by irreverence and informality. Babbo’s pasta was impeccable—and you ate it listening to Led Zeppelin IV turned up loud. At Ssäm Bar, the first thing you saw
when you walked in the door was a life-size photograph of the combative tennis player John McEnroe—and that photo was the only decoration in the room. Prune’s dining area was the
size of a New York apartment bedroom, the open kitchen so close a line cook could and did reach over the pass to place a bowl of olives on your table. And the most precisely made
and innovative cocktails in the world could be found at a speakeasy you entered through a phone booth in a hot dog joint in the East Village. These restaurants paved the way for
what was to come a few short years later: Kung Pao Pastrami at Mission Chinese and the Cheezus Christ pie at Roberta’s, a barely converted, concrete-floored, graffiti-covered
former warehouse in Bushwick. These restaurants served the best food the United States had to offer and fundamentally changed American dining. Owners spent money on ingredients,
not fancy glassware, and the servers they hired were more likely to be pierced and tattooed than French and tuxedoed. But, as wonderful as the food at those spots could be, a huge
part of the hospitality experience was missing. The bo ssäm at Momofuku was a pork shoulder, cooked for hours, which you wrapped in lettuce at the table with oysters. It was, hands
down, one of the most delicious dishes you could eat in New York. But the restaurant didn’t take reservations, and there was no room inside the crowded restaurant to wait. So if
you wanted that slow- roasted pork, you had to stamp your feet for an hour outside in the February cold—and when you were seated, it was on a knocked-together plywood stool without
a cushion or a back. Daniel and I had a vision for a fine-dining restaurant where we could have a good time without feeling like some grown-up was going to rap our knuckles for not
sitting up straight. But we wanted to do it without sacrificing any of the exceptional amenities and glorious traditions of service that make a fine-dining meal so memorable and
special. We wanted to marry the care and attention, not to mention the excellence and luxury, of classic four-star dining with the surprise and delight—the fun— of a more casual
experience. We wanted to make fine dining cool. That was the dream, anyway. In reality, we had a ways to go. Reconnaissance Matters You should never waste an opportunity to gather
intel before your first day on the job. Luckily, I had an ace advance team already in place at EMP. Sam Lipp, an enthusiastic guy with an unrivaled passion for making people happy,
had gone over to EMP a few months before, along with our colleague Laura Wagstaff; the two of them had been among my best managers at MoMA. So before I started, I took Laura out
for a drink. Laura is relentlessly can-do, a brilliant problem-solver, and a tireless advocate for the people who work for her, which is why I’m never happier than when she’s next
to me, whispering in my ear. It’s Laura who tells me when a staff member needs a little TLC, when I’m being too intense, and when my attention is on the wrong thing. She’s the one
who taps my shoulder and says, “Hey, this needs a little finessing,” or “You gotta chill out a little bit.” (If it isn’t already clear, I think every leader should have a
Laura—someone who feels comfortable telling you when you aren’t acting as the best version of yourself.) The other thing about Laura? She never complains. Ever. So when she was
shaking her head over her cocktail, telling me that what was going on at EMP was bad, I knew it was bad. Or, in her words: “bad bad.” The first problem, she said, was that two
factions had developed among the people who worked there. The first faction was the old guard, servers and managers who had been working at the restaurant for years. EMP only had
two stars in those early years, but it was a popular, busy restaurant with a ton of devoted regulars, which meant a server could make a healthy living working there. And the style
of service had matched the food, which is to say that it was friendly and relaxed, without a lot of focus on precision or finesse. The other faction was the fine-dining squad, the
managers who had come in with Daniel. They came from prestigious restaurants all over the country, and they knew EMP could be exceptional. Unfortunately, they weren’t doing a very
good job of bringing the existing staff along to their style of service, or of helping the folks who weren’t suited to that kind of service to find another place to work. They
wanted the staff to be doing things their way—the “right” way—and were constantly irritated everyone wasn’t living up to their exacting standards. So the servers and managers who
had been running the restaurant for years and were proud of everything they’d created felt unsettled and disrespected, while the fine-dining squad was frustrated by the lack of
progress toward excellence. In short, everyone was pissed off. The friction within the team was aggravated by the fact that the restaurant was badly disorganized. There were plenty
of standards in place, but no real systems to communicate them. Unsurprisingly, this led to a lot of inconsistency. My first week there, I watched a dining room manager correct the
way a server was carrying a tray. The poor guy hadn’t made it another ten steps before another manager stopped him and told him to hold the tray the way he’d been holding it in the
first place. A minor inconsistency, fine—but if the managers couldn’t agree on how they wanted a tray carried and communicate it to the people carrying them, what hope could there
possibly be for the larger vision? Meanwhile, a menu that had been more or less static for years was now changing all the time. Many of the purveyors were special and new, and the
type of guest who was excited about Daniel’s food did want to know which upstate farm the chèvre came from, and which hillside herbs the little goats were snacking on in the
spring. But information—and there was a ton of it, including a huge and rapidly evolving wine list—came in on the fly, in an intense barrage nobody could be expected to absorb,
especially twenty minutes before they were expected to share the excitement with guests. Plus, the room had the same number of seats as it had when EMP had been slinging steak
frites. It’s not unusual, at even the best-run restaurant, for there to be a moment of real hustle on Saturday night at prime time; it’s part of what makes restaurant work so fun.
But there’s also a reason you don’t see four-star restaurants with a hundred and forty seats; you simply cannot serve that type of food—or deliver that level of service—at
brasserie volume. So basic service, the black-and-white piece, had slipped. Guests were waiting past their reservation times and too long for food when they were finally seated.
During the worst nights, the whole bar would be packed with people running out of patience. One weekend, there was such a disparity between the number of reservations the
restaurant was taking and what the kitchen was able to put out, the team began humming the Guns N’ Roses song “Welcome to the Jungle” when they ran into one another at the service
station. They were supposed to be delivering an elegant, gracious experience, but a dining room manager turned to Laura and said flatly, “We might as well be working at Denny’s.”
Because it was a Danny Meyer restaurant, the team was quick to respond with complimentary champagne, along with lavish apologies for the wait. But there are only so many glasses of
bubbles you can pour, or drink. People were coming to dine at the new EMP either because they loved Danny Meyer’s restaurants or because they’d heard great things about Daniel’s
food. In either case, they were leaving disappointed. The restaurant was making more people mad than happy. Invite Your Team Along There’s a fascinating and possibly overlooked
advantage that businesses with strong cultures have: when an employee comes up in the organization, any other way of doing things just feels wrong. And wrong is how EMP felt when I
walked in on my first day. In retrospect, I can now name everything that was going sideways and tell you what I did by way of correction. In the heroic version of this story, I
struck a masterful pose and enumerated a number of inspirational management tenets, all of which transformed the restaurant within the week. But the truth is, Danny’s way of doing
things—the way he treated his employees and guests—was so baked into my consciousness that for the first few months I was acting on instinct alone. Mostly, the team needed to be
brought along. They needed to feel seen and appreciated. They needed expectations to be clearly laid out and explained. They needed discipline to be consistent. They needed to feel
like vital and important parts of an exciting sea change, not obstacles to making it happen. From a management perspective, we needed to return to first principles, and at Union
Square Hospitality Group, the first principle is to take care of one another. The fine-dining squad hadn’t come from within USHG—and even if they had been able to absorb this
crucial, employee- centered aspect of the culture, they’d been so focused on making their mark on the restaurant that they’d let this central principle fall by the wayside. That’s
why Danny had insisted the next GM come from within the company; for him, that aspect of the culture was not negotiable. To bridge the gap between the two factions, improving
communication was going to be key. At the same time, we needed systems, so everybody would know what they were supposed to be doing and how they were supposed to be doing it. It
was my hope that both fixes would make the team feel safer—and inspire them to come along on our mission. There was a lot to be done to make the restaurant better, but there would
be no point to doing any of it if the people who worked there didn’t love coming to work. If I couldn’t succeed in getting hearts and minds on board for the bigger project, then
the grand vision of a push toward excellence would be dead on arrival. Leaders Listen I had heard through the grapevine that, a few years before, a guy called Christopher Russell
had made a big impression on his team with his first speech as GM at Union Square Cafe. (I wasn’t there, so I’m paraphrasing.) He said: “I am so excited to be here; I believe in
and love this restaurant with all my heart. I’m also clear about what my job is, which is to do what’s best for the restaurant, not to do what’s best for any of you. More often
than not, what’s best for the restaurant will include doing what’s best for you. But the only way I can take care of all of you as individuals is by always putting the restaurant
first.” I loved this. It was a profoundly confident display of leadership—both a rallying cry and a way of telling the team, right away, exactly what they could expect from him as
a leader. I was inspired to use that same approach as a template for my own first-day speech. Except that Christopher had worked as a server and a manager at Union Square Cafe for
years before that promotion. He knew every inch of the restaurant, and every one of the people in that room, down to their favorite cocktails and the names of their pets. People
trusted him. He’d earned the right to give that speech. I hadn’t. Some of the best advice I ever got about starting in a new organization is: Don’t cannonball. Ease into the pool.
I’ve passed this advice on to those joining my own: no matter how talented you are, or how much you have to add, give yourself time to understand the organization before you try to
impact it. Having eyes and ears on the ground, especially those I trusted as much as Laura and Sam, was a gift. But aside from the insights they’d given me, I didn’t know anything.
So while I was tempted to deliver a similar rousing first-day speech about where the restaurant was going, I first needed to know where it was at. One of the hardest parts about
being dropped into a new environment is everyone is telling a different story. You have to connect with everybody and accept it might take a minute to determine if that manager
really is a horrible person or if his agenda just differs from whoever’s doing the complaining. You’re not always going to agree with everything you hear, but you’ve got to start
by listening. In those early months at EMP, there was lots of finger-pointing and plenty of blame to go around; I’ve never been in a situation where it was so clear everyone was
wrong and right at the very same time. Some of the old guard were phoning it in—and yet, it wasn’t hard to see why so many of them thought the fine-dining crew needed to chill out.
It didn’t even matter who was right and wrong, though, because nobody was communicating effectively. The front-line staff weren’t talking to one another because nobody was talking
to them, and they weren’t listening to one another because they felt like nobody was listening to them. So I spent my first few weeks sitting down with every single member of the
team and hearing them out. That was a whole education in itself; I learned a lot of information about the restaurant it would otherwise have taken me a long time to figure out.
Those meetings also taught me that time spent goes a long way. Sitting down with people shows them you care about what they think and how they feel and makes it that much easier
for them to trust that you have their best interests in mind. For this reason, I’d later ask the managers to stop sitting together during family meal, which the staff shares
together before the restaurant is open. By spreading out, they’d learn, as I had, that the meal is a perfect opportunity to gather ideas and perspectives that might otherwise slip
through the cracks. Find the Hidden Treasures My dad had his own platoon in Vietnam. He’d be the first one to tell you it wasn’t a great one—in fact, it’s highly likely he got it
because nobody else wanted it. In the platoon, there was a guy they nicknamed Kentucky, after his home state. Kentucky was lazy and wasn’t in great shape; he had no hand- eye
coordination, and terrible aim. And he was not the brightest bulb on the string; in the early days, my dad says, he wasn’t sure Kentucky was plugged in at all. My dad channeled his
initial frustration into getting to know the team. Talking to Kentucky, he learned the kid had lived his entire life in the dense, deep backwoods of the rural South and that his
supernaturally good sense of direction had been honed by a lifetime of navigating that land. Which also meant that, no matter how dark it got in the jungles of Vietnam, no matter
how thick the foliage or how confusing the terrain, Kentucky could always find his way—in stark contrast to my dad and all the other city slickers, who were encountering those
conditions for the first time. So my dad moved Kentucky from the middle of the pack, where he’d been put as damage control, up to the point—the very front—where he excelled for his
whole tour. In getting to know the guy, my dad turned one of the worst guys in the platoon into one of its strongest assets. In business, he’d tell me, you choose your team; even
if you inherit them, you decide if you want to keep working with them or not. In war, your team is assigned to you, and you can’t fire anyone, and many of them don’t want to be
there at all. And the consequences of a poor decision in Vietnam were considerably more severe than a plate of food ending up in front of the wrong guest. A leader’s responsibility
is to identify the strengths of the people on their team, no matter how buried those strengths might be. I thought about that often when I was sitting down with the new team at
EMP. It was tempting to weed out everyone who had a reputation as a less- than-stellar employee; eventually, some folks would need to be managed out. But first, I needed to make
sure a hidden capability wasn’t lurking behind someone’s subpar performance. Eliazar Cervantes was having issues in his role as a food runner; his managers repeatedly complained he
didn’t care. Which was true in a way, because Eliazar wasn’t particularly interested in learning about the food. Of course he couldn’t remember how old the balsamic vinegar was; he
wasn’t passionate about it. After spending time with him, I discovered something about him others hadn’t. He was incredibly organized and a natural leader, the kind of person who
carried authority easily, and who could keep a steady hand on the wheel, even when it felt like the whole enterprise was headed off the rails. The solution wasn’t to reprimand or
fire him, but to give him a different role. Eliazar became an expeditor in the kitchen. The expeditor is the person who tells the cooks when to start preparing the food and makes
sure each dish gets to the right person at the right table in a timely fashion. A good one will know exactly what a table ordered, where they are in their previous course, and how
long their entrées will take to cook. At a restaurant like EMP, he might be holding thirty different tables in his head at any moment. In other words, the expeditor both conducts a
symphony every night— and makes sure the planes don’t collide in midair. It is one of the most important jobs in any restaurant, and one of the hardest. And watching Eliazar do it
