thirteen, about a year after our dinner at the Four Seasons (on the drive back from SeaWorld, of all places), my dad asked me what I wanted to do with my life. This might seem like
a crazy thing to ask a thirteen-year-old kid, but my dad was incredibly intentional with his parenting, as with everything in his life. Every day, he’d wake up, get my mom out of
bed, put her in her wheelchair, help her in the shower, then make and feed her breakfast—all before heading off to work. Fifteen hours later, he’d come home and do it all backward,
always finding the time to watch me perform a new song I’d learned on the drums or help me with my homework. His stamina and selflessness were amazing to witness, but I now realize
he never would have been able to achieve what he did as a businessperson, as a husband, or as a father without mapping out his days with precision, organizing his priorities, and
setting his nonnegotiables. For my father, intentionality wasn’t a luxury or business philosophy; it was a requirement. I inherited from him an understanding of the importance of
this concept—as you’ll see, “intention” is a word I use a lot. Intention means every decision, from the most obviously significant to the seemingly mundane, matters. To do
something with intentionality means to do it thoughtfully, with clear purpose and an eye on the desired result. With that background, perhaps it’s not odd I knew exactly what my
life goals were, even at thirteen. First, I wanted to study restaurant management at Cornell University’s School of Hotel Administration. Second, I wanted to open my own restaurant
in New York City. Third, I wanted to marry Cindy Crawford. Everything I did from that point forward was with those goals in mind, and I’m proud to say I achieved two out of
three—and did better on the third. (No disrespect to Ms. Crawford, but my wife is really awesome.) My real first job, at fourteen, was at the Baskin-Robbins in Tarrytown. I left
many ruined cakes in my wake; it’s harder to pipe “Happy Birthday” onto an ice cream cake than you think. In high school, I worked as a dishwasher and a host at the Westchester
outpost of Ruth’s Chris Steak House and, over a summer vacation, as a busser at Wolfgang Puck’s Hollywood restaurant, Spago. Later, I would work as a server at Drew Nieporent’s
Tribeca Grill; I even spent a summer cooking at another Wolfgang Puck restaurant called ObaChine. And in my senior year, I applied and got into the hotel school at Cornell
University. My dad pushed back on that decision. He wasn’t entirely opposed to my choosing a life in restaurants, but he was uncertain about my committing to the path so early; a
degree in hotel management would mean my career was laid out for me. (He also had some experience with Cornell graduates, who tended to come out of there believing they were ready
for a CEO position, and he really didn’t want me to be one of those assholes.) But when I was accepted, I knew I wanted to cross that goal off my list. I loved Cornell and met some
of my closest friends there. As graduation drew near, my friend Brian Canlis and I traveled down to Manhattan and worked our way uptown from Tribeca, stopping for a snack or a
glass of wine at some of the best restaurants in the city: Nobu, Montrachet, Chanterelle, Zoë, Gotham Bar and Grill, Gramercy Tavern, Union Pacific, Tabla, and Eleven Madison Park.
We kept going, up to Alain Ducasse, Café des Artistes, and more. Of the many restaurants we saw, two—Tabla and Eleven Madison Park, both owned by the restaurateur Danny Meyer—stood
out to me. It felt natural to be in their dining rooms, and I returned to school excited to learn more about them. As it happened, a couple of months later, Richard Coraine, one of
his partners, came and spoke to one of my classes at Cornell, and I fell in love with their company, Union Square Hospitality Group. At the time, Danny had only four
restaurants—Union Square Cafe, Gramercy Tavern, Eleven Madison Park, and Tabla. Gramercy Tavern and Union Square Cafe were two of the most beloved restaurants in New York City,
inevitably numbers one and two every year in the annual Zagat guide. Eleven Madison Park was a bustling brasserie in an extraordinary room— the vaulted, marble-clad former
executive assembly room in a landmarked Art Deco building; Tabla, in a smaller, adjacent space, was the most exciting Indian restaurant in the country. Danny had revolutionized
fine dining in New York by putting a uniquely Midwestern spin on going out to dinner. His restaurants offered both a friendlier, more informal dining experience, and a more
excellent one—largely because of the people who worked for him. The cornerstone of the company’s culture was a philosophy Danny called Enlightened Hospitality, which upended
traditional hierarchies by prioritizing the people who worked there over everything else, including the guests and the investors. This didn’t mean the customer suffered; in fact,
the opposite. Danny’s big idea was to hire great people, treat them well, and invest deeply into their personal and professional growth, and they would take great care of the
customers—which is exactly what they did. By the time I graduated from Cornell, there was no question in my mind: Danny Meyer was the guy to work for. And when I got back to New
York from Spain, I landed an interview with Richard Coraine. Ironically, my interview took place at Eleven Madison Park, though Richard ended up offering me a manager position at
Tabla. Before I accepted Richard’s offer, though, I allowed myself one last moment of hesitation. Neither EMP nor Tabla was pretentious, but they were fancier places than I’d ever
pictured myself working at; I was (and still am) more cheeseburger than foie gras. Not for the first or last time, I turned to my dad for advice. He addressed my concerns this way:
“It’s easier to learn the right way to do things at the high end than it is to break bad habits. You can always take it down a notch later, but it’s harder to go the other way.” A
month later, I was a manager at Tabla, running the front-door team. My education had begun. CHAPT ER 4 LESSONS IN ENLIGHTENED HOSPITALITY TABLA TRANSFORMED contemporary Indian
cuisine in the United States— and the engine behind that transformation was Chef Floyd Cardoz, who cooked food inspired by his Goan heritage. Eleven Madison Park and Tabla had
opened at the same time, but EMP had gotten two stars from The New York Times, while Tabla had earned a coveted three. This was a huge win for upscale Indian cuisine, and a real
tribute to Floyd’s stubborn intensity and the true deliciousness of his food. It was at Tabla that I learned the power of being the underdog. Despite its critical success, Tabla
never did the business other restaurants in the company did, but Floyd insisted we wear our outsider status like a badge of honor. Meanwhile, he kept his head down, pumping out
some of the best food in the city. Floyd wanted the new dining room managers to respect what went on in his kitchen, so every one of us did a brief trail when we started. I showed
up, naively assuming I was there to observe the cooks at work on the line; instead, I was ushered to the prep kitchen and given a bucket of shrimp to devein. I spent the next three
hours elbow-deep in shrimp guts. The next day, Floyd asked me to chop an onion. It was terrifying. I’d done a little cooking and attended some culinary classes in college, but I
was pretty sure I wasn’t going to do it to his standard, and I didn’t. Floyd didn’t yell, but he did toss my onion in the trash and take the knife out of my hand so he could show
me how to do it correctly. Watching the intensity and respect and focus he brought to that most humble of kitchen tasks was a good preview for what was to come. Tough as he was, it
was impossible not to love Floyd and his huge grin. The childlike wonder on his face as he watched us taste a mind-blowing new dish for the first time was a gift as inspiring as
his food. Two things happen when the best leaders walk into a room. The people who work for them straighten up a little, making sure that everything’s perfect—and they smile, too.
That’s how we were with Floyd. Tabla was his big crazy dream, and everyone who worked for him would do whatever we could to help him make it a success. Go Above and Beyond In
Setting the Table, Danny Meyer’s groundbreaking book about enlightened hospitality, he tells a story about a couple celebrating their anniversary at one of his restaurants. Midway
through their meal, they remember they’ve left a bottle of champagne in the freezer. They call the sommelier over to ask if it’s likely to explode before they get home (almost
certainly yes). The sommelier saves the day by taking their keys and rescuing the bottle, so the couple can relax and finish their celebratory meal. When they arrive home, they
find the champagne safely tucked into their fridge, along with a tin of caviar, a box of chocolates, and an anniversary card from the restaurant. That story and many others like it
circulated through the company. They primed every one of us to seek out new ways to make our guests’ experiences a little more seamless, relaxing, and delightful. And so, the first
time a guest mentioned she was going to have to get up, midmeal, to feed the meter a few blocks away, it was natural for us to offer to do that for her. Eventually, that gesture
became one of our steps of service. The host would ask guests, “How’d you get here tonight?” If they responded, “Oh, we drove,” he’d follow up with, “Cool! Where’d you park?” If
they told him they were by a meter on the street, he asked which car was theirs so one of us could run out and drop a couple of quarters into the box while they were dining. This
gesture was the definition of a grace note, a sweet but nonessential addition to your experience. It was an act of hospitality that didn’t even take place within the walls of the
restaurant! But this simple gift—worth fifty cents—blew people’s minds. Systemizing it turned it from an act of heroism into a matter of course, like checking your coat or offering
a dessert menu. And the more normal it became for us to give this little gift, the more extraordinary it seemed to be for the people receiving it. Enthusiasm Is Contagious Randy
Garutti, who went on to be the CEO of Shake Shack, was the general manager at Tabla when I started working there. Randy was a wildly positive presence and an unabashed cheerleader
for everyone who worked for him—the perfect foil for Floyd’s intensity, and an ideal delivery system for Union Square Hospitality Group’s signature combination of energy and
integrity. Danny’s partner Richard Coraine would often tell us, “All it takes for something extraordinary to happen is one person with enthusiasm.” Randy was that person. He’d
played competitive sports his whole life and brought both an athlete’s tireless work ethic and a coach’s sense of mentorship and team spirit to everything he did. His pre-meal
meetings mimicked the rousing, before-the-big-game locker-room speeches you see in the movies and invariably ended with him pumping his fist at us in encouragement: “C’mon, guys,
you’ve got this!” Randy’s animation was a wave that picked you up, whether you wanted it to or not, which was why he could face a crew of the distracted, the hungry, and the
very-probably-hungover—and turn them into his own personal army. It was from him I learned: Let your energy impact the people you’re talking to, as opposed to the other way around.
For a recent and slightly cynical college graduate, Randy’s sunny optimism could sometimes stretch the limits of belief. Ask him how his day was going, and he’d say, “You know,
man, I’m trying to make today the very best day of my life.” I might have rolled my eyes, but that kind of unwavering positivity turned out to be impossible to resist, largely
because Randy believed every bit of what he was saying—and, before long, so did we. Randy also instilled in us a sense of ownership by finding ways to demonstrate his faith in our
judgment. “You okay if I get out of here a little early?” he’d ask, tossing me the keys to the front door. As a twenty-two-year-old, I was thrilled to be left in charge. If the
boss was gone, then I was the boss—which is why I worked harder when Randy was gone than when he was there. More important, I never forgot how much his trust meant to me, which is
why developing a sense of ownership in the people who worked for me would become a priority for me as soon as I was the one tossing the keys. Language Creates Culture Danny has
always understood how language can build culture by making essential concepts easy to understand and to teach. He is brilliant at coining phrases around common experiences,
potential pitfalls, and favorable outcomes. These were repeated, over and over, in emails, in pre-meal meetings, and between staff members at USHG. “Constant, gentle pressure” was
Danny’s version of the Japanese phrase kaizen, the idea that everyone in the organization should always be improving, getting a little better all the time. “Athletic hospitality”
meant always looking for a win, whether you were playing offense (making an already great experience even better) or defense (apologizing for and fixing an error). “Be the swan”
reminded us that all the guest should see was a gracefully curved neck and meticulous white feathers sailing across the pond’s surface—not the webbed feet, churning furiously
below, driving the glide. There were tons more of these, usually hooked to real-life stories, like the champagne rescued from the freezer. If you had one, you were encouraged to
share it so it could become part of the canon, too. Because of Danny’s book Setting the Table, many of these concepts and catchphrases have made it into the culture at large. My
favorite was “Make the charitable assumption,” a reminder to assume the best of people, even when (or perhaps especially when) they weren’t behaving particularly well. So, instead
of immediately expressing disappointment with an employee who has shown up late and launching into a lecture on how they’ve let down the team, ask first, “You’re late; is
everything okay?” Danny encouraged us to extend the charitable assumption to our guests as well. When someone is being difficult, it’s human nature to decide they no longer deserve
your best service. But another approach is to think, “Maybe the person is being dismissive because their spouse asked for a divorce or because a loved one is ill. Maybe this person
needs more love and more hospitality than anyone else in the room.” Restaurants are fast-paced work environments, so it was enormously helpful to have an established shorthand. The
shared language meant we could offer better hospitality to our guests—and to one another. Because when you start focusing on extending the charitable assumption to the people
around you, you find yourself giving it to yourself a bit more as well. We were introduced to many of these concepts on our very first day, at the meeting for new hires. Those
meetings were in themselves unusual; my Cornell friends had gone on to work for large restaurant companies who didn’t do anything of the sort. And the importance of those meetings
within USHG’s culture sent an immediate signal: “There’s a certain way we do things here, and it’s bigger than teaching you how you move through the dining room or how to spiel a
dish.” To begin, Danny would ask everyone to introduce themselves with a line or two. We got to know one another a little bit, which made it easy when we needed to ask for a favor
or some advice (and came in handy when you were trying to impress a date and stopped by one of the other restaurants for a glass of wine). But those introductions were also a
meta-message. The fact that the head of the company was willing to use at least half of his meeting to take the time to hear from us individually made a big impression. It was our
first indication that this central concept of enlightened hospitality—the idea that taking care of one another would take precedence over everything —was real. For the rest of the
meeting, Danny would walk us through every one of those phrases and the role they played in the culture, showing us right away that words mattered. He didn’t focus on the what—he
focused on the why. As a result, those meetings were more like class orientations at college than an introduction to company procedures. Just being in the room felt like joining a
movement or accepting a mission—a vibrant and exciting community more important than yourself. “Cult” Is Short for “Culture” Friends working at other large hospitality companies
across the country could never believe my work stories. Some of them went so far as to make snide remarks: “Oh, you’re working for the cult. . . .” I knew what they meant; between
the shared internal language, our avowed dedication to our bosses, and our unconventional commitment to taking care of one another, there was a slightly devotional feeling about
USHG. But I have since come to realize that a “cult” is what people who work for companies that haven’t invested enough in their cultures tend to call the companies that have.
Danny’s management style made it cool to care, which probably did seem laughable if you worked for a different kind of company. But those of us who worked for him couldn’t escape
the positive repercussions of the culture he’d created, which was designed to make people feel good. We were happy to come to work; our colleagues were happy to come to work. When
our bosses walked in, we hustled a little harder—not because we were scared, but because we wanted them to see we were on top of our corner of the world. And every day, we saw
guests leaving our restaurants contented, refreshed, and restored. They couldn’t wait to come back, and neither could we. This culture was strong, and it was working. Call it a
cult! I was proud to be a part of it, and no amount of name-calling was going to convince me I was wrong. So when Danny announced he was opening a restaurant and jazz club in the
Flatiron called Blue Smoke and asked me to be the assistant general manager, I was thrilled. I’d been a musician all my life, and it was a great opportunity for a
twenty-two-year-old. Which begs the question: Why on earth did I say no? CHAPT ER 5 RESTAURANT-SMART VS. CORPORATE-SMART “BEFORE YOU FALL HEAD OVER HEELS with this one way of doing
things, make sure you understand there are different approaches out there.” I was expecting my dad’s excitement to match my own when I called him on my late-night walk home from
dinner service at Tabla to tell him I’d been offered my dream job at Blue Smoke. Instead, in his calm, measured way, he questioned whether it was the best step for me to take— and
listed all the reasons why it might not be. I listened, as I always did, because my dad didn’t just give advice; he always took the time to explain why, a leadership skill I’ve
always tried to emulate. He knew how much I loved working for Danny Meyer and affirmed that what I was learning there, I couldn’t learn anywhere else. But at the time, Danny’s
company had only four restaurants. Even if they were four of the best restaurants in the country, my dad was encouraging me to consider working for a bigger restaurant group—one
with procedures and systems in place that USHG hadn’t yet had the time to implement. It was on that call that he introduced me to the concept of restaurant- smart vs.
corporate-smart. He described the distinction between the two. In the simplest terms: Where do the highest-paid people in the company work? In the restaurants themselves, or in the
corporate offices? That says a lot about how the company is run. In restaurant-smart companies, members of the team have more autonomy and creative latitude. Because they tend to
feel a greater sense of ownership, they give more of themselves to the job. They can often offer better hospitality because they’re nimble; there aren’t a lot of rules and systems
getting in the way of human connection. But those restaurants tend not to have a lot of corporate support or oversight—the systems that make great businesses. Corporate-smart
companies, on the other hand, have all the back-end systems and controls in areas like accounting, purchasing, and human resources that are needed to make them great businesses,
and they’re often more profitable as a result. But systems are, by definition, controls—and the more control you take away from the people on the ground, the less creative they can
be, and guests can feel that. Restaurant-smart companies can be great businesses, and corporate- smart companies can deliver great hospitality. But their priorities are different,
in ways that fundamentally affect the guests’ experience. I could see my dad’s point. Danny was the most restaurant-smart guy out there, but his company had grown organically, so
there was very little big-company infrastructure in place. At the time, USHG didn’t even have a corporate office; in fact, Danny’s own office was just a room in the basement of
Gramercy Tavern. The people who worked for Danny had a tremendous amount of autonomy, which was fantastic for creativity—a chef didn’t have to justify a special and expensive
ingredient or fill out a thousand forms to clear it. But all that autonomy sometimes meant leaving money on the table, too. If all the chefs in the group were buying dishwashing
detergent from different suppliers—which they were—the company had lost a valuable opportunity to collectively negotiate for a better price on an item that would have no impact on
their guests. My dad recognized that I was getting an incredible education in restaurant smarts with Danny’s company. But he wanted me to one day run a company that was
corporate-smart and restaurant-smart. It was time to go get the other half of my education. Control Doesn’t Have to Stiﬂe Creativity Tabla was one of the hottest reservations in
New York when I left my job there to go work for Restaurant Associates, my dad’s old company, as the assistant purchaser and controller for the restaurants at the MetLife Building.
In other words, I’d gone from the front door of one of the most glamorous restaurant jobs in New York to the basement at one of the least. Ken Jaskot, the purchaser at RA, didn’t
need a full-time assistant, and the controller, Hani Ichkhan, didn’t need one, either. So I split my days between them. From six a.m. to noon, I learned how to inventory a walk-in
refrigerator, how to receive a delivery, how to calculate costs of goods sold, and how to order food and supplies. After lunch, I would take off my whites, put on a blazer and a
tie, and start in with the numbers in the accounting department upstairs. It’s impossible to overestimate how important it was that I was doing both jobs simultaneously. Food and
beverage costs average thirty cents out of every dollar a restaurant makes, and most of what lands in a walk-in won’t last more than a few days. Oysters weren’t theoretical to me
as a luxury line item or a cell in a spreadsheet—they were the valuable, ugly little rocks I’d counted by hand earlier in the day, packed in ice, and nestled into their fish tub.
Upstairs, Hani made me run administrative reports pertaining to all aspects of the business—accounts payable, accounts receivable, payroll, food costs, and inventory—every single
day. So I spent my mornings making on-the-ground decisions, and the rest of the day tracking the impact those same decisions would have on the company’s bottom line. It was boot
camp and business school, rolled into one. The big surprise? I loved it. Hani was so old-school, he still used a leather ledger. In his office, “in the red” wasn’t an expression—it
was ink. Watching him page through a report was like watching Floyd experiment with spices at Tabla; for the first time, I saw someone approaching the financial side of the
business with the same unreasonable passion and ingenuity I saw Danny putting into enlightened hospitality. It was thrilling to see what was possible. One afternoon, Hani flagged
one of my reports—he’d noticed that food costs at a particular restaurant were way up, and for the second month in a row. He pulled another of my reports from the pile; the
restaurant was selling a lot of lobster. Yet another report: lobster prices had skyrocketed. A quick call to Ken to confirm: yup—demand had outpaced supply, and prices had gone
through the roof. A call to the chef: Were we undercharging for the dish? Definitely, given what we were paying for the ingredient, but he couldn’t raise the price high enough to
get costs in line without sticker-shocking our guests. So the path forward was clear: the dish, popular as it was, had to come off the menu, at least until lobster prices dropped.
Luckily, the chef had been playing with a scallop dish he could replace it with. Meanwhile, in our office: “Will! Figure out who else in the company is selling lobster.” Another
series of phone calls. . . . Lobster season at Restaurant Associates was over. The thrill of the chase was infectious; watching that analysis unfold had been so exhilarating, I’d
wished I’d had a bag of popcorn. But the episode was also a masterful display of the power of the systems Hani had put in place. As soon as he saw that food cost number, he had all
the resources he needed—and the authority—to uncover and solve the problem. He’d saved the company an untold amount of money in twenty minutes, and without leaving his desk.
Suddenly, my boring sub-reports didn’t seem so boring anymore. In a restaurant-smart company, that phone call most likely would never have happened. And if the controller did
happen to catch the mistake (if the company had a controller at all!) and reached out to the chef, they’d likely be told to stay in their lane. But overhearing that phone call
taught me that someone in corporate wielding that kind of control isn’t always unwelcome. The chef ’s bonus was tied to his food costs, and if his numbers were consistently below
par, he’d be out of a job. That explained the relief I’d heard in his voice when Hani told him where he’d been bleeding. Our back-office efficiency meant that guy didn’t have to
worry about the numbers and could go back to being a chef. We weren’t stealing his creativity; we were returning him to it. People talk about how hard the restaurant business is,
and it’s true that it’s not easy; restaurant owners face unique variables and narrow margins. But whatever terrifying statistic you’ve heard about how many restaurants fail in the
first year has a lot more to do with the people who open restaurants without understanding the business part of the business. When I’d left Tabla to go to RA, I thought I wanted to
be Danny when I grew up. After the lobsters, I wanted to be Hani. Trust the Process Just because I was having a great time learning from Hani didn’t mean he wasn’t driving me
crazy, too. In my accounting classes at Cornell, they’d told us everything starts and stops with the profit and loss statement. It’s the thirty-thousand-foot view, the Big
Picture—a snapshot of the business that tells you what you’re doing well, and what requires attention. So the whole time I worked for Hani, I was desperate to get my hands on a P&L
for one of the restaurants he oversaw. But he guarded those P&Ls like a dragon; I wasn’t even allowed to look at them. That didn’t stop me from pestering him: “Can I see a P&L?
Now?? Is it time?? What about now?” Every day, he told me to go run my reports. Then one day, six long months in, Hani dropped a P&L in front of me. I’d hardly opened it before he
started peppering me with questions, but he’d prepared me well; running those endless sub-reports meant I knew how to attack every problem that could possibly crop up. And because
I was working upstairs and downstairs, I had an almost preternatural sense for what the spreadsheets were telling me. Naturally our disposables line was high! But not because of
waste or overordering; the company had sent us too many of our custom-printed to-go bags, and the guys downstairs had loaded them onto the shelves before we’d caught the mistake.
So, yes, they needed to double-check the receipt before unpacking an order, but at least I knew why that line didn’t look right. I’m so thankful to have had a leader like Hani at
that point in my life; there’s so much I wouldn’t have learned if I had skipped steps. I thought of him often, later in my career, when I was managing young people hungry for more
responsibility or a bigger title. Hani hadn’t been doing me a disservice by making me wait; he had been forcing me to strengthen my foundation, a solid base I relied on for years
afterward. Waiting didn’t dim my ambition or hamper my progress; it taught me to trust the process—a lesson I would see the wisdom of when I was showing my own staff that the right
way to do things starts with how you polish a wineglass. There’s no replacement for learning a system from the ground up. Sometimes Control Stiﬂes Creativity After nine months, RA
moved me from my hybrid purchaser-controller assistant position and gave me another one: the assistant general manager and controller of Nick + Stef ’s Steakhouse at Madison Square
Garden. Nick + Stef ’s is an unusual restaurant, in that it’s basically dead all the time—except right before a game at MSG, when it turns into one of the most popular restaurants
in New York. Two hours before the game, people swarm in like locusts, order massive steaks and beautiful bottles of wine— then, ten minutes before tip-off, the whole restaurant
stands up en masse and swarms out again. Because of that unevenness, everyone who worked there wore multiple hats—which made it perfect for me. As assistant general manager, I ran
around on the floor during the pregame crunch, solving problems and helping servers. I was thrilled to be back in the dining room, talking to guests and fine-tuning their
experience. During the off-hours, I did the restaurant’s accounting, putting into practice everything I’d learned from Hani. After two months, the changes I’d made had improved the
restaurant’s profitability by two points—and I was just as excited to run that report as I had been the first time I sent a host to top up someone’s parking meter at Tabla. Then,
one afternoon, while helping out behind the bar, I realized that a floral display was blocking the bartenders’ ability to make eye contact with the guests sitting at the two stools
at the end of the bar. Easy fix: I moved the vase to the other side of the bar, where it looked just as good. As a bonus, the new placement blocked the guests’ view of the busy and
sometimes messy service bar, where servers stopped to pick up the drinks that bartenders had made for their tables. Two days later, though, the arrangement was back in its original
spot. I asked my general manager why. “Arts and Design from corporate stopped by, and they weren’t happy. You can’t move stuff without asking them; that’s not our job, it’s
theirs.” Wait, what? I couldn’t move a vase? At one level, I understood. When you have a lot of restaurants, you have to put some controls in place. I happen to have a decent sense
of design, but not everybody does; you can’t have random people making arbitrary decisions about how your restaurant is going to look. Still. How could people in an office—who’d
never been behind any bar, let alone ours—think they knew better than us about where that vase should be placed? The question nagged at me every time I saw that vase— and the
bartenders craning their necks to see their guests around it. I had learned from Hani that corporate-smart didn’t by definition stifle creativity. But that vase taught me that,
left unchecked, it would. Still, this was only a blip in an otherwise great experience, and I didn’t dwell on it. I was still having fun on the floor on game nights and getting
lots done in the back office. Then, a month or two later, I ran into trouble with a server. Let’s call him Felix. Felix’s type will be familiar to managers in every kind of
customer-service business. They’re notoriously disrespectful to their coworkers and often an absolute nightmare to work with, but they’re considered unfireable because they’re so
beloved by the company’s customers. I have strong feelings about the Felixes of the world. Just because a few regulars love an employee doesn’t mean they should be allowed to erode
the foundation of everything you’re trying to build. As charismatic and charming as these people may be with the public, and as valuable as the relationships they have with guests
may seem, the collateral damage the Felixes do to the culture of a business is too dire to be tolerated. One night, Felix rolled into work halfway through a dinner service, a full
two hours late. That was a problem, because the dinner rush at Nick + Stef ’s before a game was no joke, even when we were fully staffed. Still, when he walked through the doors, I
channeled the charitable assumption. “Hey, I’ve been calling you. You had me worried—is everything okay?” Without apologizing, Felix casually informed me that he’d “lost track of
time.” That was when I went from concerned to furious. “We’ve all been running our faces off, covering for you. Where have you been?” “I don’t need to explain that to you,” he
scoffed, pushing past me and heading toward the locker room. “Don’t bother changing,” I called after him. “You’re fired.” The next day, I got a call from Human Resources. “Felix
called. We know he can be tough, but regulars love him and his check averages are routinely high, so we’ve made the decision to go ahead and rehire him. He’ll be at work tomorrow;
it would be great if you could apologize to him.” Again—at one level, I get it, I really do: a big company can’t afford to have a twenty-three-year-old manager firing everyone who
annoys him without cause. But whoever was sitting in that office reviewing how much food and wine Felix was selling on a spreadsheet could have no idea of the destructive impact he
had on the team as a whole. I did, and I was livid. Corporate-smart was all fine and good, but at what point do you need to trade some control in favor of trusting the people on
the ground, the people who are connecting in real time with your team and your customers? Former navy captain David Marquet says that in too many organizations, the people at the
top have all the authority and none of the information, while the people on the front line have all the information and none of the authority. I was learning that, taken too far,
corporate- smart could be restaurant-dumb. I still stand by my decision to fire Felix. And I still feel that HR reversing my decision without consulting me—without even asking for
my side of the story—was unacceptable. I have thought of this experience many times when mediating disputes among my own employees. “We put our employees first” should mean all
employees. Many misunderstood this about the first tenet of Danny Meyer’s enlightened hospitality. When he said, “Take care of each other first,” he didn’t mean it was only a
manager’s job to take care of the hourly employees; it was everyone’s job to take care of everyone. Managers are employees, too. That doesn’t mean they’re automatically right or
should be allowed to fire loyal, long-standing employees on a whim. But if you take care of your managers and give them what they need to be successful, you put them in a better
position to take care of their teams. After some grumbling, I brushed off the incident, figured out how to work with Felix, and got on with the job. But I’d be lying if I said that
incident didn’t change my relationship to my work. I felt disempowered, because I had been. And it was hard, from that disempowered position, to give all of myself—to spend twelve
to fourteen hours a day executing someone else’s vision—knowing that they’d had so little trust in me. One afternoon a few months later, on a day off, I had lunch at Union Square
Cafe, where my old boss Randy was general manager. (I didn’t have a ton of money at the time, and eating where your friends work usually results in some free snacks.) Leaving the
restaurant, I ran into Danny Meyer in Union Square. He didn’t know me well, but we’d had a good relationship when I worked at Tabla, and we stopped to talk for a minute. I wanted
to stay connected to Danny because he was someone I admired. So a day or two later, I sent him an email, filling him in on what I’d been up to since I’d left Tabla the year before,
including everything I was learning about accounting and purchasing. Danny wrote back the next day, telling me in confidence that he’d signed an agreement to run the restaurants at
the newly renovated Museum of Modern Art. “I’d love to talk to you about it sometime.” It was 2004, and MoMA was reopening after a two-year-long, $450- million renovation and
expansion. Danny would be opening a high-profile fine-dining restaurant on the ground floor of the museum called the Modern, which would look out onto MoMA’s legendary Sculpture
Garden. The chef was Gabriel Kreuther, a rising star from Alsace who who was one of Food & Wine’s Best New Chefs in 2003, and the dining room design was stunning—modern and serene.
The Bar Room, a more casually designed area in front, would serve small plates and cocktails at the long, luxurious bar. The Modern’s opening would unquestionably be among the
hottest and most eagerly anticipated of the year, but that wasn’t what interested me. When I got Danny’s email, my first thought was: Whoa. They’re taking over the restaurant
operations of an entire museum. Imagine that P&L. And at our meeting, Danny proceeded to offer me the exact job I wanted: general manager for the casual food service operations in
the museum. These included two cafés, where museumgoers could grab a salad for lunch or a cup of coffee as a pick-me-up; a staff cafeteria; and an in-house catering team that could
service meetings and small gatherings. In other words, I would be responsible for everything except the fine- dining restaurant downstairs. It was perfect. I had loved my time at
Restaurant Associates, and I owe a lot of my success to what I learned there. I could easily have stayed with that company and gone on to do great things with them. But what Danny
was offering me was truly unique and right up my alley: the chance to find out if I could bring corporate-smart to the most restaurant-smart company in the world. Find the Balance
Between Control and Creativity I loved MoMA. The museum staff had relocated to a satellite facility in Long Island City during the extensive renovation, so I was the first employee
to have an office in the new museum. Coming into the empty building as the final pieces fitted together was the ultimate behind-the-scenes experience. The first couple of weeks, I
passed Monet’s Water Lilies every morning. It was leaning up against a wall, like the framed Pearl Jam poster I never got around to hanging in my college dorm. My first office at
MoMA was on the fifth floor. It was enormous— probably eight hundred square feet—and overlooked the Sculpture Garden. Before you get too excited, I was only up there because they
were finishing the floors from the top down. When the museum staff started moving back into the building, I got systematically bumped down, floor by floor, like Milton in Office
Space, until I ended up in the sub-basement. Which tells you how high-priority the food and beverage program was—at least, the food and beverage program I was responsible for. That
was true, even within my own company. Everyone at USHG was focused on what was happening down at the Modern and at the Bar Room, both of which were huge hits right out of the gate,
