tableside. Because we had to bring those to the table on a separate tray, we needed twice as many food runners. But we didn’t have twice as many food runners, so more often than
not, it was a dining room manager following with that tray. To alleviate some pressure, we went back to saucing the dishes in the kitchen. Though marginally less theatrical, the
change meant the managers could return to supporting the team on the floor. It was a shame to lose those extras; many of our guests noticed their absence. But keeping them wasn’t
worth the cost, if doing too much meant the staff was falling apart. I reminded myself: If adding another element to the experience means you’re going to do everything a little
less well, walk it back. Do less, and do it well. The cultural reboot was probably most apparent in the topics we tackled at pre-meal. For months, the focus had been on how we
could excel and achieve. Now, it was time to bring that same creativity and innovation to setting up the staff to succeed in a more sustainable way. Everyone’s oxygen is different,
and we have to figure out for ourselves what we need to breathe. For me, relaxation means a night alone on the couch, eating Chinese takeout while binge-watching television too
dumb to disclose. My wife’s oxygen is a hike or a long run. Yours might be CrossFit, or yoga, or a long bike ride, or cooking, or painting, or going to see live music, or lying on
a blanket in the park with your friends. Exercise, nature, being in community, and creative pursuits do seem to be common themes, but it’s never going to be one-size-fits-all: you
have to know what works for you. This was what we worked on with the team. We encouraged them to find their oxygen and to take the time to breathe. Slowing down wasn’t just about
nurturing them in the moment. It was about building a more solid foundation for the future, so that when we did need to speed up again (and we would, very soon), our minds and
hearts were in top shape. The Deep Breathing Club My good friend Andrew Tepper worked for years in a juvenile psychiatric hospital. When he started there, he was alarmed to see how
many kids were regularly melting down or freaking out, threatening to hurt themselves and others. He was also disturbed by how many sedatives the staff was prescribing. He started
teaching the kids calming breathing techniques to use when they were agitated. Though the techniques were incredibly effective, he struggled to get the kids to do them
consistently. (A good idea is one thing; getting it to take root is another.) Then, one day a few months later, while rummaging through his parents’ basement, he happened upon some
silk screen equipment he’d held on to from high school. He used the silk screens to make a batch of really cool T-shirts with the letters DBC (Deep Breathing Club) in block letters
across the front. If a kid got through three potential incidents by using deep breathing instead of screaming or getting violent, they’d earn a shirt. He was simultaneously
reinforcing good behavior and making deep breathing cool. Fast-forward five months, and half the kids in the hospital were wearing DBC shirts. The number of meltdowns, as well as
the amount of sedatives prescribed, went down significantly. We were having our own version of a collective meltdown at EMP. Oxygen masks were one thing—a necessary big-picture
solution. But we also needed a solution in the moment. You know when you’re in the weeds, all the way at your wits’ end, and you’re so overwhelmed you can’t even tell what would
help? Crisis moments like that happen often in restaurants and in most high-pressure environments. If you have any emotional intelligence at all, you know that saying “Calm down”
or “Chill out” to a person who is freaking out is like squirting lighter fluid on a bonfire already on the verge of spreading out of control. But still: there has to be a phrase, a
rescue remedy that will bring the other person back to themselves long enough to ask for the help they need. Because much of the time, a simple intervention—like asking a manager
to bring a table the silverware for their next course—is all it would take to give the panicked person some breathing room. I invited Andrew to pre-meal to tell the team about DBC,
the idea that a few deep breaths can be all it takes to get you through what feels like an impossible situation. (He brought T-shirts.) The concept became one of the most enduring
elements of our culture. In moments of crisis, all we had to do was walk up to an overwhelmed colleague and say, “DBC.” They’d stop and take a few deep breaths. What was really
being communicated was, “I see you and what you’re going through. We’re in this together, and we’re going to get through it together, so what can I do right now to help?” Touch the
Lapel Our manager meetings became less about improving the guest experience and more about how to make the restaurant more sustainable for all of us. Our pre-meal meetings followed
suit, almost exclusively consumed with conversations about how to restore balance. Because the culture of collaboration was fully in place at Eleven Madison Park, it was only a
matter of time before the team started getting involved. Tweaks were made to everything from side work to scheduling. A seemingly small but extraordinarily significant idea came
from a longtime captain, Kevin Browne. The baseball-inspired sign language we used to indicate a table’s water preference had been so effective, we were always looking for new
signs to make our lives easier and the experience better for our guests. Kevin came up with one that changed our culture: if you made eye contact with a colleague and touched your
lapel, it meant “I need help.” Before this, asking for help in the middle of a busy service could be challenging. A server would often have to chase their manager across the
enormous room; many times, just as they were about to catch up with them, the manager would stop at a table. That meant the server would then have to wait, while their task list
continued to pile up. If they were busy enough to need help, spending so much time trying to get it made them even more overwhelmed. Many times, they’d give up and end up back at
their station, in a worse position than before they’d tried to get help. After we introduced Kevin’s signal, a server could make eye contact with their manager or one of their
colleagues and touch their lapel, and the other person would come help as soon as they could. It was a small gesture, but the impact it had on the restaurant was not. DBC made it
easy to offer help; Kevin gave us an easy way to ask for it. I believe this sign came to be one of the most important of all of them —and the most long-lived, as I’ve seen it used
in restaurants across the country, disseminated by our alums. Let’s be honest: asking for help is hard, especially for the kind of people who were working at EMP by
then—thoroughbreds, accustomed to being the best, who couldn’t stand anyone thinking they couldn’t handle their workload. In fact, it was often our best people who would get in the
most trouble when service was challenging, because they were the ones least likely to ask for help. Being able to ask for help is a display of strength and confidence. It shows an
understanding of your abilities and an awareness of what’s happening around you. People who refuse to ask for help, who believe they can handle everything on their own, are
deceiving themselves and doing a disservice to those around them. As Danny Meyer used to say, hospitality is a team sport. If you let your ego get in the way of asking for what you
need, you’re going to let the whole team down, and the hospitality you’re delivering is going to suffer. The sign made it easier and more efficient to ask for help, and systemizing
it stripped the stigma from it. Between slowing down, learning to take a few deep breaths, and finding easy ways to offer and ask for help, this recommitment to balance was
crucial. I honestly believe none of the success that came later could have happened without the course correction we made in 2008. And then, almost as a reward for taking the time
to invest in our foundation, the universe (well—Frank Bruni, actually) gave us a little gift. In December 2008, Bruni gave three stars to Corton in The New York Times. Corton was a
restaurant Drew Nieporent had opened in Tribeca with the chef Paul Liebrandt. In his review, Bruni said, “Corton is for the most part superb, and joins the constantly improving
Eleven Madison Park as a restaurant hovering just below the very summit of fine dining in New York.” We were ecstatic. Buried in this other, unrelated restaurant’s review was a
secret message to us—I’m seeing what you’ve been up to since the last time I visited, and I know you keep getting better. Keep going! CHAPT ER 15 THE BEST OFFENSE IS OFFENSE THE
MICHELIN GUIDE WAS CREATED at the beginning of the twentieth century as an ingenious marketing ploy. The tire-selling brothers who originated it figured that encouraging people to
drive around France to try different restaurants would increase tire sales, so they threw together a free guide of the restaurants in France. Their star system reflected whether a
restaurant was worth traveling for. One star meant a very good restaurant in its category, worth a stop. Two meant excellent cooking, deserving of a detour, while three stood for
exceptional cuisine, important enough to merit a special journey. Over the next century, Michelin, with its secretive team of anonymous inspectors, became the most revered and
prestigious restaurant ranking in Europe. In France, gaining an additional star can make a restaurant’s fortunes, while being stripped of one can ruin it: the chef Bernard Loiseau
took his own life when it was rumored that his restaurant, La Côte d’Or, was about to lose one of its three stars. (One of the most devastating parts of the story is that the
restaurant didn’t end up losing the star after all.) So while it may sound like hyperbole to an American, in France, a Michelin star can be a matter of life or death. The Michelin
Guide had begun reviewing New York restaurants in 2005. Eleven Madison Park hadn’t been on the list then, or in 2006, to no one’s surprise. There had been some grumblings in the
blogs when we failed to make the list in 2007, but Daniel and I weren’t bothered— Michelin is known for moving slowly, and we were still finding our feet. But in 2008, the buzz was
there. We had three stars from the Times, and we’d been accepted into Relais & Châteaux, a significant European honor we’d assumed would put us on Michelin’s radar. The team was
putting 110 percent into every table. So when the New York list was released, we crowded into the office to pore over the announcement. Le Bernardin had three stars. Jean-Georges
had three stars. Masa had three stars. Even the Spotted Pig, April Bloomfield and Ken Friedman’s celebrity-filled gastropub, had a star. We weren’t even on the list. The blow was
even more devastating because a restaurant could only increase by one star every year. Not only would we have to wait another year to be included at all, but it would be three
years before we could even hope for that coveted third star. The team was crushed and confused by the snub, and I learned there is no more difficult moment to be the head of a
business than when there has been a massive disappointment. The daily pre-meal meeting meant there was no dodging the discomfort. I was standing in the center of that circle,
surrounded by my disheartened friends and colleagues. They were waiting for explanations and comfort, but I had no wand to wave to take the devastation away. All I could do was
express my own sadness and confusion, in the hope that sharing the hurt would allow us all to move forward. A leader’s role isn’t only to motivate and uplift; sometimes it’s to
earn the trust of your team by being human with them. But I was annoyed by the snub, too, because I knew that we were already pretty freaking excellent and getting better every
day. So, after we’d wallowed for a couple of days, I encouraged the team to get mad. “We’ve always been at our best when we’re the underdogs,” I told them at pre-meal, “and here we
are again. Think of this as fuel for the fire, and use it.” It was time to start playing offense. Unfortunately, the economy had other plans. Raindrops Make Oceans In November
2008, the world was hit by a global recession, which the International Monetary Fund would later call “the most severe economic and financial meltdown since the Great Depression.”
To put it mildly: it was not a good time to be selling expensive food. We got through the holidays okay, but as soon as the New Year turned, business fell off precipitously. The
headlines were dire, and cancellations rolled in. We’d started to gain a reputation as a splurge-worthy special- occasion meal, but for most people, it no longer felt prudent to
spend so much on a single dinner. Better to dump that money into an emergency fund, a hedge against the worst. Couples who had gotten engaged at EMP and came back to celebrate with
us every year found more frugal ways to celebrate their anniversaries. One couple brought a bottle of champagne to Madison Square Park and raised a glass to our huge windows from
across the street—over an order of cheese fries from Shake Shack. Our private-party business ground to a halt. Wedding parties downsized, either by cutting the guest list or
fleeing to more modest venues. And companies, whose lavish private events and cushy expense accounts are a fine-dining restaurant’s bread and butter, had switched into austerity
mode as well. With fewer deal closings, there were fewer closing celebrations, and if extravagant end-of-year bonuses were still happening, people weren’t toasting them in public;
suddenly, the optics of a showy, over-the-top, splashed-out dinner felt all wrong. Most nights, we didn’t have enough reservations to seat the whole dining room, so we closed off
the area of the restaurant we called Uptown (an area separated from the tables on the lower level by a few steps) to make the empty room feel less cavernous. It was an improvement,
and the row of banquettes made for a natural barrier, but you could still tell the restaurant was only half full. We put on brave faces for our guests, but I spent my nights buried
in the books. There was no getting around it: the restaurant’s financial situation was desperate and getting worse every day. We had all the expenses associated with running a
four-star restaurant without the demand that came with the honor—or the ability to charge four-star prices. So we were hemorrhaging cash. In fact, the only reason we stayed in
business was because Eleven Madison Park actually owned Shake Shack at that point in time. Shake Shack had started in 2004. It was originally a hot dog cart, part of an art
installation in Madison Square Park. (When I first arrived at EMP, ShackBurgers were prepped in our private dining room; during lunch service, cooks would walk out the front door
of the restaurant carrying giant sheet trays filled with uncooked burgers.) Everybody loved the hot dog stand, and it reopened the next summer, and the next. Eventually, it became
Shake Shack, a permanent kiosk serving burgers and frozen custard, modeled after the classic Midwestern roadside shacks of Danny Meyer’s youth. By the time the recession hit, Shake
Shack was more than profitable; it was starting to be—well, Shake Shack. The line that snaked around the park had become such a New York institution that Danny bought a webcam, the
Shack Cam, so you could gauge the wait from your home or office before deciding whether it was worth coming over. The recession, if anything, gave that business a boost; as they
always do in tough times, people flocked to affordable experiences that felt a little special. The upshot for us was that EMP wasn’t sponsoring this cute little art project
anymore. Instead, the profits from Shake Shack were sponsoring us. Danny was patient; he had faith in us. But you can’t use the profits of one restaurant to pay for the losses of
another for too long; that’s just bad business. Every month, I’d walk into the P&L meeting to try to explain away our losses and offer some hope, with the sinking knowledge that if
I couldn’t turn the ship around, the great Eleven Madison Park experiment was going to come to a grinding halt. I leaned heavily on my dad in those days, and we had some hard
talks. He’s a cutthroat survivalist, never precious about the niceties of restaurants in general, and fine dining in particular. But as always, he pulled me out of the forest so I
could see the trees. “Adversity,” he told me, “is a terrible thing to waste.” In a global recession (or a global pandemic, for that matter), many business owners panic. And for
good reason! All your well-laid plans have gone out the window; all your careful projections no longer apply. Uncertainty is scary. But though it’s easy to panic in the face of
adversity, creativity is the better solution. Luckily, all the work we’d done to solidify our culture had set us up to be creative. We started by cutting expenses. Easier said than
done, because it was essential that none of those cuts adversely affect our guests. We started in the kitchen, though not with the food. It’s harder to keep a half-full restaurant
stocked than a full one, especially when almost all the components are made fresh; when you’re busy, you have a better sense of the ingredients you’re going to go through, and how
quickly. But regardless of our financial situation, we had to have the full menu; if people had come for the signature duck, then we had to have it. So while Daniel and his team
were working hard to aggressively manage food costs, every night we were still throwing out tons of food. That waste was inevitable. We had to find other places to cut. At every
P&L meeting in those days, Danny’s partner Paul Bolles- Beaven liked to remind us, “Raindrops make oceans.” With that in mind, I chased after every penny. We were in the habit of
using two linen cloths to cover the pass, the countertop where the cooks put plates of food that were ready to be picked up by the food runners. We always used two so we could
strip off the top one midway through the evening and finish out the night with a clean cloth. This was a luxury that was easy to cut. We saved thousands on cleaning chemicals by
checking the dishwasher settings and making sure they weren’t sucking out more soap than necessary. And the paper towels that we dipped in vinegar and water to clean any drips or
fingerprints off the edge of a plate before it went out to the dining room were cut in half. Our cooks wore tall paper toques because they were beautiful and classic and a link to
Daniel’s European heritage. They were also disposable; the cooks could discard them when they got sweaty or stained. One night, I did the math. If a cook went through two or three
toques over the course of a hard shift, and there were thirty cooks in the kitchen working two shifts a day, that meant we were spending thousands of dollars a year on those
toques—whereas a box of the thick, washable cotton skullcaps most restaurants gave their cooks cost a few hundred, and we’d get at least a year out of those. That cut was hard:
we’d chosen the toques because we wanted the cooks to feel a sense of pride and a connection to their culinary history every time they put them on. But leadership during a crisis
means recognizing it’s more than the hats that give the cooks a sense of pride. It was harder to make cuts in the dining room without adversely affecting the guests. Running a
fine-dining restaurant is expensive. Labor costs are high—every gleaming knife and immaculate glass has to be polished by hand. And it’s never more expensive than when you’re
trying to get to the next level, because you basically need to overspend and undercharge in order to get there. Still, we found as many cunning ways to cut costs as we could. We’d
been proud to showcase twenty unique cheeses on our cheese cart—but we could make a beautiful cheese plate with only ten, and fewer options resulted in less waste. I watched the
cart like a hawk, cutting the cheese myself some nights to make sure we used every presentable piece. More than anything, this is what changed: we became hyperattentive to every
cost, closely monitoring every penny we spent and becoming more disciplined than we’d ever been before. Paul was right. All those cuts, all those raindrops, did start to add up.
And the savings we saw from making them allowed us to fight another day. As I was coming up in my career, my dad encouraged me to keep a journal. The goal then had been to maintain
perspective. When you’re working as a server, that’s the only view of the world you have. And while you may think you’ll hang on to that point of view forever, the truth is that
once you’ve been promoted to manager, you’ll eventually find your priorities replaced by a new set. As my dad would say, “Perspective has an expiration date, no matter how hard you
try to hold on to it.” Unfortunately, when you lose the viewpoint of the people you’re responsible for managing, you also tend to lose your empathy for them. We’d all be better
leaders if we could tap back into what it felt like to be led. But it’s hard to reclaim that headspace, and journaling was a way to hedge against that loss. So as we were making
all these small cuts, my dad encouraged me to start journaling again. He told me to write down every single cost-cutting measure we’d implemented, no matter how small. He believed
we were going to come out the other side, and that as soon as we did, we would dump every frugal hack we’d come up with during the hard times. Keeping track of them would make it
easier to hold on to the best of them, and this season of adversity would ultimately make us more profitable in the future. For as many cuts as we chose to make, there were just as
many that we chose not to. Remember, we still had big goals; we were still playing offense. This meant that anything that affected the guest experience was basically off-limits,
which meant there was a lot that was off-limits. There were only so many extras we could trim before we would be cutting into the bone, deteriorating our brand. Even with better
dish racks and a padded dish cart, expensive Riedel glasses break; hand-thrown ceramic dishes chip and need to be replaced. At the end of a world-class meal, you couldn’t ask a
guest to sign the credit card slip with a Bic—but every one of the silver pens that ended up in a purse or a pocket went onto our P&L. If we wanted to stay the course, cutting
expenses wasn’t going to be enough. We were going to have to build our top line as well. Adversity Is a Terrible Thing to Waste We were creative in how we saved money, and we got
creative in how to make money, too. (This, incidentally, was a whole lot more fun.) No matter how you try to sugarcoat it, managing expenses is playing defense, and we had decided
to play offense to get through the crisis. Our lunches had always been expense-account-driven, and with those accounts drying up across the city, there were days you could
practically see tumbleweeds rolling through the room at high noon. But we looked at the empty dining room at lunch and saw an opportunity. The average price of an entrée at lunch
at EMP at the time was around thirty-five dollars. So we started offering a twenty-nine-dollar two-course lunch. The check average at EMP had never been that low, not even when it
was a brasserie, but if it helped fill those seats and return energy to the dining room, it was worth it. These inexpensive lunches meant a whole new demographic could suddenly
afford us, which bore unexpected dividends. Our goal was to be the four-star restaurant for the next generation, and today’s assistant might very well be tomorrow’s CEO. The move
gave us the opportunity to build and maintain relationships with people who were working their own way up through the ranks. We made sure guests were getting outrageous value for
their twenty- nine bucks (if you’re giving a gift, it should be awesome). And in the years that followed, I met countless people who’d been introduced to the restaurant for the
first time through those reasonable lunches, some of whom had become our biggest fans. The recession also had a real adverse impact on check averages. People were just ordering
less stuff, and the things they were ordering were less expensive. We obviously couldn’t raise prices, so we needed to get creative about how to offset the decrease. This is where
things got really fun. When I was a waiter at Tribeca Grill, the rule about delivering dessert was “low and slow”—when walking across the restaurant to deliver desserts to a table,
walk more slowly than you ordinarily would as you pass the other tables along the way. And keep that applesauce cake at the guests’ eye level, so that by the time you come around
with dessert menus, everyone’s already been thinking about it. (This is why sugary cereals are always stocked on the lower shelves at the supermarket—it puts them at eye level for
kids.) At EMP, we introduced a dessert trolley—a cart stacked with delicious pies and cakes and tarts—that we could push right over to the table. Most of the time, when you offer
people a dessert menu at lunch, they look at you like you’re an alien. It’s partly calories, but mostly no one has time to go through the whole rigmarole of ordering a dessert,
then waiting for it to be plated and brought out and eaten and cleared before they can get the check. Dessert tacks half an hour onto your meal, and at lunch, especially in New
York, people are in a hurry to get back to work. Roll up to their table with a dessert cart, though, and they turn into wide-eyed little kids struggling to choose their
treat—especially because they know they can have the one they point at, right away. The cart was beautiful and experiential, and people loved it. Dessert sales went up by 300
percent. The twenty-nine-dollar lunches brought energy back to the restaurant, even if the margins weren’t what we were accustomed to, and a full dining room gave the team the
feeling that everything was going to be okay, even when I wasn’t completely sure it would be. More important, the additional business meant we could give the team more hours. We’d
spent the past few years hiring an amazing group of people; we couldn’t afford to lose them if we wanted to stay the course. As much as they all loved the restaurant and our
mission, they had bills to pay. I’m proud to say that we didn’t lay off a single member of the team during that time. Keep the Team Engaged at All Costs All the cuts we made were
having an impact, and all the creative ideas we had come up with to build revenue were as well. But no matter how you spin it, working in austere times is hard. We needed to fully
flex our creative muscles—we needed to have some fun. It was time for some 95/5. Enter the Kentucky Derby. The year before, a friend had invited me to come down and see his band
play at a Kentucky Derby party. The party itself was grubby—more East Village dive bar ironic than the gracious Southern garden party the occasion deserved—but I’d had a blast. And
I loved the idea. The Kentucky Derby! What other occasion has you drinking a signature cocktail in your Easter best? At what other event is it mandatory to wear a fantastic hat?
This was a party we could knock out of the park. So, the next spring, we threw ourselves into hosting the most gorgeous, over-the-top Kentucky Derby bash of all time at Eleven
Madison Park. We decorated the room with horse-shaped topiaries, garlanded with roses as if they’d made it to the Winners Circle. The sumptuous buffet featured traditional Southern
foods: Benedictine tea sandwiches, fried chicken and waffles, and the meaty braise called Kentucky Burgoo. We had a raw bar and a live band—high-octane American roots bluegrass,
courtesy of the Crooners. And our bartenders kept the frosty mint juleps coming in their signature beaded pewter cups. People love to dress up when they don’t have to, and our
guests did not disappoint. (We held an informal Best Dressed contest, with the lowest- tech applause-o-meter in history—my own ears.) All this to celebrate the Greatest Two Minutes
in Sports, which we watched, breathlessly, on the massive movie screen we’d put up at the back of the restaurant, after a bugler in jodhpurs and a red jacket had sounded the call
to post. The party was a huge risk. Who throws a fancy party in the middle of a recession? But the risk paid off; we broke even. While we didn’t make—or lose—money, it did
invigorate the team. And we’d partnered with Maker’s Mark, Nat Sherman cigars, and Esquire magazine, who promoted the event to their own vibrant communities, which broadened ours.
A lot of homesick Southerners, horse people, hat lovers, and cigar aficionados were suddenly in love with EMP. The staff had as much fun at that party as the guests did, and I made
a promise to myself: if the restaurant did survive, that sense of playfulness was a quality I never wanted to lose. We were doing a great job; the experience we were giving our
guests was awesome. And we were pinching every penny we could. We’d come up with great ideas to build the brand, and some of them had worked, but the greatest party in the world
couldn’t compensate for a global recession. Danny was rooting for us, but the bottom line was bleak, and time was running out. Then, one day at lunch, Frank Bruni walked in. It
Doesn’t Have to Be Real to Work Seeing Frank Bruni saunter in during an otherwise sleepy lunch service incited a rare combination of terror and excitement: obviously, he was there
to see whether we deserved another look. We were all way too superstitious to say this out loud, but we couldn’t ignore what was true: Bruni would only bother re-reviewing us if he
was going to give us four stars. To be honest, there was quiet chaos in the first moments after his arrival. Nobody burst into tears or broke into a run, but there was some
panicked stage-whispering and deer-in-the-headlights moments of forgetting how to walk and talk. Pretty quickly, though, we were able to get past our nerves. And when he left,
there were high fives all around: we were confident he’d had a great meal. Then nothing happened. Crickets. Getting reviewed is nuts. In the weeks after the critic comes in, you’re
on alert. Everything shifts into high gear. Your whole life stops. The chef and the general manager and the wine director stop taking days off; you can’t take the chance you won’t
be there when he comes back. This is always stressful, but it’s tolerable because the period is limited. Critics generally come in three times over a couple of weeks. Then you get
the phone call saying that the paper is ready to take pictures, and—for better or worse—it’s over. Except that our review process took months. Again, just as a mediocre team can’t
suddenly become great on the day of the Super Bowl, a mediocre restaurant can’t become a great one the day the reviewer walks through the door. The restaurant you are is the
restaurant they’re reviewing, and I stand by that. But when you’re going for four stars, you’re aiming for perfection, so we did everything in our power to make his experience
perfect—even when he wasn’t there. Because every night that Bruni wasn’t in the restaurant, which was most of them that year, we designated one random table as the Critic of the
Night and used those tables as a dress rehearsal. These make-believe critics ate at our best table. They were served by our best team and advised on their wine choices by our wine
director. When it came time to reset the table for their next course, we didn’t pull forks out of a drawer, no matter how meticulously those had been polished before service—no,
there was a separate box of silverware set aside, every piece of which had been checked and buffed by a manager. Re-polished glasses sat on a separate tray, and every plate for
that table was scrutinized for chips and smudges. The kitchen fired doubles of every dish that the Critic of the Night’s table ordered, just as they would when the real critic was
in the house, so Daniel could send out whichever one had been ever-so-slightly more perfectly cooked. We assigned our two best food runners to take the food out—two, because you
don’t want a critic to see the same person over and over again and suspect that you’re hand-selecting the people delivering the food to them (which, of course, we were). It wasn’t
real, and yet no detail was left to chance. I thought about this when I watched The Last Dance, a documentary about Michael Jordan and the Chicago Bulls, the team he led to six NBA
championships. Jordan’s competitiveness was legendary; it was his fuel. If another player dared trash-talk him on the court, or to disrespect the Bulls in the media, watch out. But
if nobody dared, then Jordan would fan the flames himself, inventing slights and interpreting accidental bumps as personal attacks. Any hint of disrespect, even fabricated, was
enough to motivate him to rise to the occasion. He’d create stakes, even when there were none. Most nights, the critic in our restaurant wasn’t real, just as the rivalry Michael
Jordan created in his head wasn’t real, but it doesn’t have to be real to work. The ruse was successful. Were other people in the restaurant getting worse service than the fake
critic? No—in fact, the difference between that table and the one right next to it would have been completely imperceptible, even if you knew what to look for; if anything, that
level of focus helped us up our game with every other table. Because the Critic of the Night was for us. It allowed us to role-play so that every single move was rehearsed and
polished to a gleam. It also meant that when Bruni did come in, we’d be so practiced, not only would there not be any panic, but we would be ready for him regardless of what table
he sat at and what team ended up serving him. The host would make eye contact and nod, and the cascade would begin: He’s here, and here we go. Because it took him so long to come
back, and because of this unreasonable routine we were running every night, I honestly believe it was in that year that we finally started operating on a four-star level. Not just
for Frank Bruni, but for everybody else. In fact, it would be nearly a year between that first lunch and the eventual review. Even with our confidence and all the practice, the
wait was emotionally trying. I honestly think the only reason we were able to withstand a review process of that length, especially coupled with our financial desperation, was
because of the cultural reboot we had done. In short, it was good that we’d figured out how to put our own oxygen masks on, because there wasn’t a lot of relaxation that year. I
eventually forced myself to take a day off to go see De La Guarda, a circus-like performance art piece and one of the hottest shows in New York City at the time. It is best known
for the ending: after the last, beautiful scene, the music comes up loud, water falls from the ceiling, a confetti cannon goes off, and everyone dances. You leave the theater
exhilarated, soaked, and covered in colored paper. Wouldn’t you know it: as soon as I turned my phone back on outside, it buzzed with a missed message: “HE’S HERE!” I left my
girlfriend on the corner, sprinted back to my apartment, jumped into the shower, threw on a suit, and was back at the restaurant within thirty-five minutes. I ran into the kitchen,
checked in with Daniel, and immediately folded myself into service. All that practice had paid off. The staff was impeccable and collected —at various points, some of them even
looked like they were having fun. This was what we’d been training for. It was time to show him what we could do. Every fifteen minutes, I’d sneak into a hidden nook next to the
barista station with a direct sight line to his table so I could torture myself. The mind games I played with myself were terrible. I obsessed over every tiny thing that happened,
even though I intellectually understood that critics are also human beings and have normal interactions with their friends. I tried to remind myself: if he laughed, he was not
cruelly mocking the food. A piece of foie gras left on the plate didn’t mean he didn’t like it, but that he had been out to dinner six times that week and didn’t want to choke down
an entire plate of duck liver. Or maybe it did mean he hated it, and everything else we were doing. It was exhausting. But Bruni seemed to have a good meal that time, too. So we
went right back to waiting and practicing and hoping and watching the door. We spent the rest of that year and the beginning of the next on pins and needles. He came and ate the
fall menu and the winter menu. In the summer he came back—again, and again, and again. Then, finally, during the first week of August, we received the call from The New York Times
to schedule the photographer to shoot the pictures that would accompany our review. At the Times, reviews post online the night before the printed paper is released. So on August
11, 2009, we went into service anxiously awaiting the news. A group was in the office, refreshing the page over and over again, but I was too nervous to stay in there, so I went
back out to the floor, figuring I might as well make myself useful. I was drizzling olive oil tableside over an appetizer of ricotta gnocchi with artichokes when a single diner,
one of our regulars, pulled the review up on his phone. He leapt out of his chair, thrust his arm into the air, and yelled, “Four stars!” The whole room erupted in cheers. I rushed
back into the office. Daniel and most of the team were already crowded around the computer, reading the review with giant smiles. The headline read, “A Daring Rise to the Top.”
Bruni chronicled our rise from two, to three, and then to four stars, saying that he’d fallen in love “gradually, not all at once.” He described watching “an improved, excellent
restaurant . . . make yet another unnecessary advance.” I couldn’t help but see how eerily and accurately those words captured not only the evolution of the guest experience, but
the evolution of our culture as well. That review ended up being his second to last as the critic at The New York Times. In his farewell article, he talked about us one last time.
In writing about the “wonderful, wonderful meal” he’d had with us, he said, “What I was eating at Eleven Madison Park and what I was feeling in that grand, glorious room added up
to a magnitude of enchantment much greater than that at other three-star restaurants.” “A magnitude of enchantment”! We had done it. We had four stars. And we’d earned them through
our focus on excellence, but even more so because of our focus on hospitality . . . by being unapologetically us. Danny showed up not too much later, glowing with pride. I saw him
before he even walked through the door and ran out to give him a big hug. The first thing he did was ask for my cell phone. He immediately called my dad, wanting to share the
moment with him and congratulate him on the role he had played in making it happen. Watching my two mentors congratulate each other and celebrate that moment is something I won’t
forget. The party we threw that night was bigger than any we had thrown before. I had reached out to our rep at Dom Pérignon and asked them to donate two cases in the event that
the news was good; I had a DJ on call for the same reason. I’d also had T-shirts made: the four leaves of our logo, with four stars below them, and it gave me great pleasure to
