they’d learned with the team. Quickly, Happy Hour topics began to transcend wine and spirits. Madison Square Park was right outside our enormous windows; one of the servers did a
presentation on the storied history of the park, so we’d have interesting factoids to share with guests. (The rules of baseball were created there; the torch from the Statue of
Liberty was displayed there; and it was the site of the country’s first community Christmas tree lighting in 1912.) That led us to reach out to Kenneth T. Jackson, a professor at
Columbia and the world’s foremost authority on New York history, who gave the entire team a tour of the park and the surrounding blocks. Jeff Taylor was our resident
restaurant-history buff. Once a month, he’d do a deep dive on an iconic, old-school restaurant like Le Pavillon, which debuted at the 1939 World’s Fair, launched chefs like Jacques
Pépin, and defined both French food and fine dining for New Yorkers in the second half of the twentieth century. Billy Peelle, a food runner, immersed himself in the New York
Public Library’s vast historic menu archive, ending up with a knockout presentation on menu design and its evolution over the second part of the twentieth century and into the
twenty-first. Menu design was entirely outside the scope of Billy’s role; it was a project I handled myself, in collaboration with our graphic designer. But he knew his
presentation would connect us to our heritage—the legacy we had charged ourselves with defending and extending. Perhaps it’s not a surprise that, years later, Billy also went on to
be the general manager. Let Them Lead Those Happy Hours had an important side benefit. Normally, classes in a restaurant are led by the managers, not the staff, but as more and
more members of the hourly team led classes, they acted more like leaders. I wanted to push this one step further. I’ve already said I believe the most important moment of
leadership each day in a restaurant is the pre-meal meeting, when the manager steps out to teach and inspire and get the team aligned before service. Once a week on Saturdays, we
took the responsibility of leading that meeting away from the managers and gave it to a member of the team. Leading pre-meal meant acting as emcee, following the template I’d
established: basic internal housekeeping about stuff like paychecks and health insurance, then a short speech about a service experience you’d had that you’d found exciting or
inspirational. At the end, you’d hand the meeting over to a sommelier or to a sous-chef to talk about wine list and menu changes. Of course, that middle bit was the challenge,
especially if you were nervous about speaking to a group. Many people told stories about tables they’d served at EMP or service experiences they’d had elsewhere, both good and bad.
You could also talk about an adventure you’d had outside the realm of food and restaurants, like the shot after my haircut. As long as the experience had taught you a lesson about
making people feel seen and welcomed and appreciated, it was fair game. Leading Saturday pre-meal gave our hourly employees the chance to step into a role ordinarily filled by
managers. They were contributing not only to the education of the team, but to their inspiration. And asking the team to run these meetings and present at Happy Hour had yet
another unexpected benefit: everyone became more comfortable with public speaking. I’ve always been comfortable talking to a group; in high school, I did theater and student
government. But, in keeping with my dad’s advice to build my strengths as well as my weaknesses, I took a public speaking class at Cornell. It had a lasting impact on me and was
where I learned one of the most important tenets of public speaking, which I follow to this day: Tell them what you’re going to tell them, tell them, then tell them what you’ve
told them. The other important takeaway from that class was that public speaking is a leadership skill. Being able to communicate your own excitement is a powerful way to engage
the people who work for and with you, and to infect them with energy and a sense of purpose. We saw an enormous difference in the team in the months after they started leading
Happy Hours and Saturday pre-meals. I loved the way they talked to guests: after all, taking an order, helping a guest make a decision about wine, or spieling a course are all
forms of public speaking. They had more authority when giving instructions to their colleagues during service, too. But the real shift was intangible; they began carrying
themselves differently. Make It Mandatory “Mandatory” is a dirty word in the workplace these days. Leaders tend to make enriching programs voluntary because we assume that
everyone’s going to be as excited about them as we are. But getting people to change their behavior is hard; sometimes you need to give them a taste of what it feels like to get
them hooked. This doesn’t mean being exploitative—pay people for their time. But don’t be afraid to make participation in a program mandatory. There were lots of structured
opportunities available for those who wanted to collaborate at EMP. But some people need to contribute to know how good it feels when they do, so I developed some tricks to prime
the pump. One of them was to make collaboration mandatory for some of our new hires. At every restaurant I’ve ever worked at, the reservations office has been a dump. The dining
room looks perfect, and the kitchen must be pristine. The manager’s office is usually pretty organized, or else you won’t be able to find what you need when you need it, and it’s
good to keep the locker rooms tidy and clean, because those spaces are important for the morale of the team. So anything without a home that needs to be moved out of the dining
room gets stuffed into the reservationist’s office. Promotional glasses from a liquor distributor? An extra box of Christmas decorations? A cookbook the team is passing around?
It’s all piled up in the reservationist’s office, the restaurant equivalent of a junk drawer. And every one of them has a neglected, disorganized bulletin board, weighed down by
outdated announcements and reminders. The best way to introduce a new employee to your culture is to have them work side by side with someone who believes in it. But
reservationists tend to work alone or with one other person, and they had to watch the phones instead of attending pre-meal, so they were always a little out of the cultural loop.
And yet, because they were the first person guests interacted with, we wanted them to be good ambassadors. So we used an act of mandatory collaboration to bring them into the fold.
When a new reservationist was hired at Eleven Madison Park, we asked them right away to do one thing to make the reservationist’s office better. This was a mandate, not an invite,
though they could decide what to do and how big or small. We had to show them, right off the bat, that we meant it when we said collaboration was welcome. Otherwise, even a real
self-starter might hesitate before jumping in: I wonder whose toes I’d be stepping on if I were to fix that nightmare of a bulletin board. The program was helpful, to them and for
us. New people had the gift of fresh eyes and could see all the warts the rest of us had long stopped seeing. It also helped them to break the ice with their new colleagues; we
wanted people to be comfortable asking for help or clarification, and assigning a collaboration kick-started that: “Would an additional bulletin board be helpful in here? If so,
who do I talk to about petty cash?” Not to mention that the inevitable thanks—“How did we live like that for so long?”—would be coming from the person’s new colleagues, as well as
from their boss. Assigning a collaboration runs counter to the “Don’t cannonball” advice I usually gave young managers, I know, but there’s an important difference: a
reservationist is an entry-level position. A lot of good comes from empowering the most junior staff. Once people had gotten a feel for how good it felt to make a contribution,
they would start actively looking for a way to do it again. And it was a way for us to communicate, on a person’s very first day: We hired you for a reason. We know you have
something to contribute, and we don’t want to wait to see what it is. Listen to Every Idea When you spend this much time encouraging your team to contribute, you’d better make sure
your team knows that your doors are always open to ideas. There’s a better way to do everything, and I made it clear: if you had an idea for how we could improve, I wanted to hear
it. The first time someone comes to you with an idea, listen closely, because how you handle it will dictate how they choose to contribute in the future. Dismiss them that first
time, and you’ll extinguish a flame that’s difficult to rekindle. Someone may approach you with an idea you’ve heard before, or one you’ve already tried; don’t automatically reject
these. Maybe they’ve thought it through in a way you didn’t previously, or circumstances have changed and you’re no longer too far in front of the curve for it to work. Someone may
even come to you with an idea that’s just plain dumb. That’s an opportunity to teach—to listen, and then to explain in a respectful way why the idea is unlikely to work, so that
the person leaves both encouraged and educated. Remember: there’s often a brilliant idea right behind a bad one. Great Leaders Create Leaders Managers weren’t always thrilled by
this emphasis on collaboration, especially if they’d worked their way up through the ranks. This can be a problem in “promote from within” cultures; with power comes increased
responsibility, and relinquishing those responsibilities—especially if they’re new and hard-won—can feel like a demotion. So we reminded them: great leaders make leaders. You don’t
want to have a hundred keys; you win when you end up with only one—the key to the front door. Once they’d turned over some of these responsibilities, they’d have more time to make
their own contributions. I can’t overstate how much credit I give this more collaborative approach for our ultimate success: in my eyes, collaboration is the foundation upon which
Unreasonable Hospitality was built. Every single program improved by leaps and bounds, in ways that surprised us. The ideas we were fielding were newer and fresher; in fact, many
of the ideas we would be most celebrated for were born in those programs. And there were more of them because it wasn’t only me and Daniel and a few managers coming up with a plan.
Giving the team more responsibility than they expected had an amazing impact—the more responsibility we trusted them with, the more responsible they became. The more they taught,
the more they understood the importance of everything we were asking them to learn. The more they led meetings like pre-meal and Happy Hour, the more they started acting like
leaders. The more practice they had with public speaking, the more confidently they carried themselves. And because every single person on the team knew that the vision was created
collectively, we were all willing to work even harder to achieve our goals. CHAPT ER 11 PUSHING TOWARD EXCELLENCE “WILL! I’M PRETTY SURE I just sat Frank Bruni.” It was late 2006
when our breathless, wide-eyed maître d’ caught up with me at the service station to tell me the food critic for The New York Times had just walked into the restaurant. The Times
generally allows a few years to pass between reviews, and we weren’t anywhere near due. But the hiring of an exciting new chef can sometimes trigger a re-review, and we’d been
hoping that our hard work, not to mention the buzz it was creating, would inspire him to give us another look. If Bruni was in the restaurant, our review season had begun. To say
that our team had been laser-focused on what the Times would have to say about the changes we’d made at Eleven Madison Park is an understatement. “Obsessed” is probably a better
word. In fairness, the stakes were high. Eleven Madison Park was, to put it bluntly, the kind of Danny Meyer restaurant that was meant to have three stars. Union Square Cafe had
three stars. Gramercy Tavern had three stars. Tabla had three stars. But EMP had gotten two stars from the Times when it opened, and again when it was re-reviewed in February 2005.
That last, ho-hum two- star review had been the catalyst for Daniel’s hiring, and for mine. So while the two of us may have been dreaming about four stars down the line, for the
sake of our immediate job security—to say nothing of our sanity—we needed three. It was go time. Excellence Is the Culmination of Thousands of Details Executed Perfectly
Confession: I’m a perfectionist. If my wife parks the car crooked, I’ll repark it; if she leaves a book slightly askew on her nightstand, I’ll adjust it so it lines up with the
edge. Every time she makes the bed, I remake it. (Luckily, she has a good sense of humor about all this.) I can’t help but see these imperfections, and it’s nearly impossible to
stop myself from fixing them. In order to feel at peace, I need things around me to be just right—unreasonably organized, and in their proper place. I’m unapologetic about this
now, but I wasn’t always; I’ve spent my whole life taking fire for my fastidiousness, and I’ve often felt embarrassed about it as a result. My college friends would sneak into my
room to move objects on my dresser a couple of inches, then wait to see how long it took me to move them back. I’d catch on right away, of course, and try to casually nudge
everything back into place without anyone noticing; the teasing I got, while affectionate, was merciless. It was only at Eleven Madison Park that I came to recognize my fanatical
attention to detail as a superpower. And while it’s not my only one, it was definitely the one that got a workout as we were gearing up for our first review. The restaurant
business—any service business, in fact—is a hard one for a perfectionist, because they’re human-powered organizations. And, no matter how hard they try, humans make mistakes. Two
responses are possible when you realize that perfection is unattainable: either give up altogether, or try to get as close as you possibly can. At EMP, we opted for the second. It
may not be possible to do everything perfectly, but it is possible to do many things perfectly. That’s the very definition of excellence: getting as many details right as you can.
Sir David Brailsford was a coach hired to revitalize British cycling. He did so by committing to what he called “the aggregation of marginal gains,” or a small improvement in a lot
of areas. In his words: “The whole principle came from the idea that if you broke down everything you could think of that goes into riding a bike, and then improve it by 1 percent,
you will get a significant increase when you put them all together.” This resonates deeply with me and is a pretty accurate description of how we approached that review season.
Perfection as an overall goal was overwhelming, not to mention unattainable—we knew that. But we were going to get as close as we could, and we were on it long before the maître d’
told me Frank Bruni was sitting at table 32. Every restaurant locker room and kitchen in New York City has a picture of The New York Times food critic taped to the wall. The role
is supposed to be anonymous, but no matter how hard a new critic tries to scrub the internet of photos, an old book jacket or a publicity party picture always squeaks through.
(These days it’s often a blurry shot, surreptitiously snapped and circulated by another restaurant manager.) Here’s the thing: it doesn’t matter if you recognize the critic. No
football team phones it in for twenty games, then steps it all the way up for the Super Bowl. Similarly, you can’t be a mediocre restaurant three hundred and sixty-four days a
year, then transform into a great one the day the critic happens to come in. Sure, if you recognize the critic before they’re seated, you can take them to a table in your most
skillful server’s section; you can make sure the food you bring them is perfectly plated and the best expression of the dish. But while you can show a critic the best version of
your restaurant, you cannot suddenly become something you’re not—and they know that, too. The restaurant you are is the restaurant they’re reviewing. Which was why we had spent the
months leading up to that moment trying to be a little bit more perfect, every night. The Littlest Things Matter We chased excellence in every element of what we did. The team in
the kitchen had trained so they could prepare Daniel’s dishes with precision and consistency. Excellent communication between the dining room and the kitchen ensured that the
timing was dialed in for every course, at every table. Everyone working in the dining room had crisply ironed uniforms, tidy hair, and neatly manicured hands. Each piece of
silverware and every glass gleamed. The servers knew the menu backward and forward—where the components for each dish came from and how exactly they were prepared. This is an
example of how being unreasonable in the pursuit of excellence made us more hospitable. Because when a server delivered a dish, they didn’t have to scramble to remember what was in
it; they were so assured in their knowledge, all their energy could go toward connecting with the guest. Training extended far beyond menu and wine knowledge, to tweaking the most
minute aspects of the environment. We couldn’t start the evening with the lights too low because our windows were so huge, and the contrast of a too-dim room with the brightness
outside was unpleasant. But because the sun goes down at a different time every day (not to mention that the light coming through those massive windows changed dramatically with
the weather outside), lowering the light levels over the course of the night wasn’t a task we could automate, or make a simple rule about, like “Level 4 at seven p.m.” The staff in
charge of adjusting the lights had to be taught, and they had to stay attentive. Maybe more important, they had to understand the impact lighting had on the atmosphere of the room
and on the whole experience. They had to buy into the importance of getting it exactly right. Similarly, we spent hours selecting each song on our music playlists. But music that’s
too upbeat and loud in a nearly empty room will make you feel like the first guest at the world’s most depressing party, so we trained the staff at the front door to gauge when it
was time to move from the more mellow Empty Dining Room playlist to the slightly snappier Half-Full Dining Room (and so on), and to control the volume accordingly. Lighting levels
and playlists are details that every restaurant struggles with. But some problems we couldn’t solve by being more excellent—we had to innovate. For instance, it’s well-known that
at the very beginning of the meal, and at the very end, time seems to slow down. In those moments, the guest has a heightened sensitivity to any delay—we can all relate to feeling
like we’ve been waiting hours for that first glass of water or for the check. So it’s crucial to get something—anything—in front of the guest as soon as you can. A glass of water
is a great solution, but EMP wasn’t a diner on the corner; we couldn’t pour water out of a stainless pitcher as soon as a guest was seated. The process we did have in place was too
slow. The captain would ask the guest what kind of water they’d like—iced, bottled still, bottled sparkling—then they’d find the table’s server to communicate the preference. The
server would fetch the bottle and bring it back to the table, a practice made even more glacial because the room was so large. We spent a lot of time in our manager meetings
talking about how to make this more efficient. We ended up stealing a solution from baseball, where the catcher has to communicate with a pitcher sixty feet away: sign language.
After the host brought you to the table, the captain would hand you menus and ask about your water preference. Moments later, and without any visible communication—often before the
captain had even left the table—your server would be at the table, pouring your preferred water choice. It wasn’t magic; the captain had discreetly signaled your preference to one
of their colleagues using a hand gesture (wiggled fingers for bubbles, a straight chop for still, and a twist of the fist for ice) behind their back. Another issue was that the
room felt busy. It took a lot of people to execute hospitality at this level, but too many bodies moving swiftly around a room—even one as big as the dining room at EMP—can feel
chaotic. In a bustling brasserie, servers zigzagging through the room lends an exciting energy; in a fine-dining setting, the commotion feels disruptive. So we established traffic
patterns for the staff like the ones on city streets, though they were imperceptible to our guests. Corners had invisible stop or yield signs. Most of the room was one-way only,
and the traffic moved clockwise. In a two-way corridor, you hugged the wall to the right, as you would if you were driving. As we used to say, the goal was ballet, not football.
These invisible traffic rules allowed the staff to move in an orderly fashion around the room without dodging one another or relying on verbal cues like “Excuse me” or “Behind.”
These subtleties were hidden from the guests, but every single one of them contributed to the overall feeling of comfort and serenity that people enjoyed while they were dining
with us. The Way You Do One Thing Is the Way You Do Everything We needed to be operating at a high level of precision all the time. To get the staff tuned into the correct
frequency, we asked them to start thinking that way as soon as they walked in the door. We trained the people setting the dining room to place every plate so that if a guest
flipped it over to see who had made it, the Limoges stamp would be facing them, right side up. That’s ridiculous, right? Utterly unreasonable. Maybe one or two guests would flip
that plate in a month. Most nights, nobody did. Even if they did, would they guess that the placement had been intentional? And some people probably turned over the plate in a way
we didn’t anticipate, so that that the manufacturer’s stamp wasn’t faceup at all. That was okay—because whether someone flipped it or not, that perfectly placed plate had already
done what it needed to do. The way you do one thing is the way you do everything, and we found, over and over, that precision in the smallest of details translated to precision in
bigger ones. By asking the person setting the dining room to place each plate with total concentration and focus, we were asking them to set the tone for how they’d do everything
over the course of the service —how they’d greet our guests, walk through the dining room, communicate with their colleagues, pour the champagne to begin a meal and the cup of
coffee to end it. There’s a story about Walt Disney challenging his Imagineers when they were creating the first animatronics for the Enchanted Tiki Room. The Imagineers were
convinced they had produced the most lifelike, detailed animatronic bird possible, but Disney wasn’t satisfied. Real birds breathed, he pointed out; the chest expanded and
contracted. This bird wasn’t breathing. Frustrated, the Imagineers reminded him there would be hundreds of distracting elements in the Tiki Room, including waterfalls, lights,
smoke, totem poles, and singing flowers—nobody was going to notice a single bird, whether it was breathing or not. To which Disney responded, “People can feel perfection.” Maybe
people don’t notice every single individual detail, but in aggregate, they’re powerful. In any great business, most of the details you closely attend to are ones that only a tiny,
tiny percentage of people will notice. But if I could institute a system that demanded that the entire team think carefully about even the most rudimentary of tasks, I was creating
a world in which intention was the standard, and our guests could feel it. Setting the dining room with intention allowed us to control all the details we could control, making us
less easily thrown off by everything we couldn’t. On any given night, a million problems had the potential to mess up a service. All five of the reservations in our first seating
could show up late, guaranteeing that we’d be late to seat the guests arriving for those same tables a few hours later. A guest might walk in irritable from a breakup or from a bad
day at work. The espresso machine might stop working. But there were many things we could control. We could ensure that the tablecloths would be spotless and immaculately ironed,
the Riedel logo on the foot of each wineglass aligned with the table’s edge, and that every piece of silverware had been placed the same distance from the edge of the table—the
length of the top joint of the thumb. We were focusing on those details for the benefit of the guest experience, but the impact they had on us was equally profound; we could feel
it, too. Just as walking into a thoughtfully organized room can lower your blood pressure, maybe that perfect tabletop would be enough to remind a flustered server that, no matter
how badly in the weeds they felt, the sky was not falling. Maybe seeing that unsullied field of white with glasses and silverware so carefully set by their colleagues would be
enough to return them to the frame of mind with which they’d begun the day, allowing them to take a deep breath, recenter themselves, and greet our guests calmly and with warmth:
“Welcome to Eleven Madison Park.” Finish Strong: The One-Inch Rule Say you take a plate from the kitchen and carry it out into the dining room carefully, so that it appears exactly
as the chef plated it—the sauce perfect, the tiny pluche of chervil balanced just so. Then, in your rush to your next task, you jostle the plate as you drop it off at the table.
Maybe the fish tips over slightly, or the garnish slips. When you lose focus in that last inch, the presentation is ruined. A lot of people would say that’s not the end of the
world, and maybe they’re right. But I believe that mistake is bigger than a smudge of sauce where it shouldn’t be on an otherwise pristine plate. Every dish we served at Eleven
Madison Park was the result of weeks, if not months, of recipe development and testing. The server who’d described it to the guest had painstakingly learned the description and
worked hard to paint a picture for the guest, so the dish sounded irresistible. The cooks who’d made it had brought years of training and experience to the faultless preparation
and plating of the protein, and the six other components on the plate represented even more hours of labor and care. If your job was to place that dish in front of the guest, you
were the last link in a long chain of people who had invested many hours of work in that dish. If, in that final inch, a zucchini flower tumbled because of your carelessness, you
were letting a lot of people down—including the guest, who’d trusted you with a few hours of their life in the expectation that you would blow their minds. Unfortunately, it’s
common for people to lose focus in that last inch, compromising all the work they and their teams have done to get where they are. This isn’t specific to restaurants, though there
are thousands of restaurant-specific examples I can think of—failing to take a minute to make sure that the final settings on your lighting and music are correct before you open,
for instance, or neglecting to walk guests to the door at the end of their meal so you can deliver a personal goodbye. For the team at EMP, the One-Inch Rule was both a literal
instruction —to put the plates down gently—and a metaphorical one, a reminder to stay present and to follow through all the way to that last inch, no matter what you might be
doing. The concept of the One-Inch Rule went viral at EMP. I often heard the team refer to it when they talked in pre-meal about other service experiences they’d had. Most
important, I heard them talking about it with one another. I knew a culture of excellence was taking root when, as people grew and moved up through the ranks, they took on the
mission of transmitting that culture to newcomers. And the One-Inch Rule was the lesson I was most likely to overhear a more senior employee passing along to someone who was
starting out with us. Being Right Is Irrelevant It was a busy Tuesday dinner service when one of our guests ordered the beef with bone marrow and brioche, cooked medium rare.
Shortly after his plate was delivered, he summoned the server back to the table. “I ordered this medium rare,” he protested, “and this is rare.” I watched as the server corrected
him. “Actually, sir, that is medium rare, but if you’d prefer it medium, I’d be happy to take it back to the kitchen.” Ugh. The server was technically right, according to the
doneness chart in a culinary school textbook. (A true medium rare is, for many people, quite a bit more rare than they’re expecting.) And I knew he wasn’t trying to be rude. He was
being defensive because he didn’t want the guest to think we’d made a mistake. He was part of the team gunning for three stars, and with a not-so-secret eye on a fourth—and you
don’t get four stars by making mistakes. His instinct was to get the guest what he wanted, right away—that was the good part. But as far as hospitality goes, it didn’t matter.
Because pride wasn’t what that server was communicating. What he was doing was telling the guest he was wrong: “You, sir, don’t know a true medium-rare when you see it.” Of course
the guest felt shamed and rebuked; he had been, even if that was never the intention. So here we were again, negotiating the delicate balance between excellence and hospitality. If
you’ve corrected a guest because you don’t want them to think you’ve made a mistake, you’ve made a much bigger mistake. If hospitality is about creating genuine connection, and if
that connection happens only once the guest has let their guard down, shaming them makes it highly unlikely you’ll ever be able to get that connection back again. In pursuing
excellence, we were trying to do as many things right as we possibly could. At the same time, we had to let go of the concept of being right, because it meant going against the
very essence of what we were trying to do, which was to make people feel great about eating and drinking in our restaurant. We needed to make sure we were serving our guests, not
our egos; as Danny Meyer says, “Being right is irrelevant.” So instead of explaining what a true medium-rare looks like, we needed to say, “Absolutely, sir, I’m sorry,” before
getting the guest a steak cooked exactly the way he wanted it cooked. It was then that a new mantra at EMP was born: “Their perception is our reality.” Which means: it doesn’t
matter whether the steak is rare or medium rare. If the guest’s perception is that it’s undercooked, the only acceptable response is, “Let me fix it.” And true hospitality means
going one step further and doing everything you can to make sure the situation doesn’t repeat itself—in this case, making an internal guest note in our reservations system that
this person “orders steak medium rare, but prefers it cooked medium.” It’s important for me to make clear that “Their perception is our reality” did not apply in scenarios where a
guest was being abusive or disrespectful. The customer isn’t always right, and it’s unhealthy for everyone if you don’t have clear and enforced boundaries for yourself and your
staff as to what is unacceptable behavior. The line is bright: abuse should not and cannot be tolerated, period. Still, this adjustment wasn’t easy for everyone on the team.
“Sucking it up when I know I’m right feels demeaning,” a talented server told me, and I knew what she meant. But the credit we got from our guests for making them happy far
outweighed any we lost from making a so-called mistake. It’s only demeaning to suck it up if you take it personally. Saying sorry, I reminded the team, doesn’t mean you’re wrong.
Appreciate the Journey In January 2007, a photographer from The New York Times called the restaurant to schedule a photo shoot for the pictures that would accompany the review of
Eleven Madison Park, running later that week. Daniel and I were excited—and anxious, with good reason. Looking back now, I can see what a huge inflection point that review turned
out to be, both in the history of the restaurant and in our careers. Thankfully, it was good news. Bruni asked: “When did you last look at Eleven Madison Park? If the answer is
more than a year ago, look again.” All that focus on excellence had paid off. We’d achieved our first goal: three stars from The New York Times. At our first pre-meal after the
review, we poured everyone in the kitchen and dining room a little bit of champagne so we could celebrate what we’d all accomplished and how far we’d come. And I told them to save
up a little bit of the feeling they had that afternoon so they could tap back into it when the going got tough, because we had a long way to go. “Have a great service. When you get
off, go out and have an awesome time—you deserve it. Feel it all fully. Appreciate this moment. Then come back tomorrow and we’ll get back to work.” (When, true to his word, Danny
sent Richard Coraine to ask me if I still wanted to move from EMP to Shake Shack, I told him I thought I’d stick around for a while.) CHAPT ER 12 RELATIONSHIPS ARE SIMPLE. SIMPLE
IS HARD. I LOVE ANY EXCUSE TO wear a tuxedo. So it was a thrill to put one on and walk down the red carpet at the James Beard Awards in May 2007 at Lincoln Center with chefs like
Thomas Keller and Daniel Boulud. We were there because Daniel had been nominated for the Rising Star Chef of the Year Award, which is given only to chefs under the age of thirty.
He had just turned twenty-nine, and though he had been nominated for that award before, while he was chef at Campton Place, he hadn’t won. This was his last chance, and I was
convinced he was going to take it home. Then they opened the envelope: “And the 2007 award for Rising Star Chef goes to Momofuku’s David Chang!” Daniel was devastated. And while
his name would have been the one on the award, we all felt like we’d lost. Chang’s restaurants, you could argue, were a reaction to fine-dining restaurants; he believed you could
have delicious food without pretention and stuffiness. But so did we! Daniel and I had been doing everything in our power to prove that fine dining was still relevant and that
these hallowed traditions could be reimagined in a way that felt contemporary and fun. The difference was that Chang’s restaurants were a rebuke to fine-dining restaurants, whereas
we hoped ours represented their evolution. After the Times review, we had started to feel our project might not be such a fool’s errand. But on that night, Chang had won, and we’d
lost. It was a tough hit. So immediately after the awards were announced, I started inviting friends to come back to the restaurant with us. Even though I also felt the loss
acutely, my responsibility that night was to take care of Daniel. It’s easy to be someone’s partner during the good times, but it’s most important during the hard ones, and I
wanted him to feel as loved and supported as he would have if he had won. Later, we’d be known for the legendary, restaurant-destroying parties we threw when we were celebrating a
win. But the first party we ever threw for ourselves was on a day that we lost. It reminded me of our wise guest’s advice: drink your best bottle not on your best day but on your
worst. I have never been the kind of leader who brushes off bad feelings. After a setback, I’d tell the team to go ahead and wallow. “Guys, this sucks. We’re working so hard, and
we care so much, and still—today didn’t go our way. Let’s allow ourselves to feel the disappointment; it’s real and we don’t need to pretend it’s not.” Fully feel your
disappointment, sure—but there’s no reason you should drink bad wine while you’re doing it. So the night of the Beard Awards, Richard Coraine went to our cellar and emerged with
some beautiful bottles. We filled the room with people who loved us and believed in us. Daniel Boulud came downtown and made scrambled eggs for everyone, as he had when I was in
college. (I had a slightly better kitchen to offer him this time.) The party wasn’t an all-out rager, but it was a celebration: No James Beard committee could take away how much of
himself Daniel had put into the pursuit of his goal or how much he’d accomplished. And even though we’d lost, the award ceremony itself had felt like an arrival of sorts. It had
been electrifying to realize we were suddenly on the radar screens of people whose work we had followed our whole careers. That night was a hard one. But it wasn’t devastating
because making the choice to be together—to lift one another up—brought us even closer together. Turn Toward Tension Working in a restaurant is challenging: a lot needs to be done,
and quickly. There are stairs to climb, hot kitchens, and guests with competing desires and requests. People on the team from all walks of life have to learn to navigate
relationships with one another. While we’d gotten to the point where everyone who worked at EMP was pushing for the same result—every single one of us wanted to make the restaurant
the best it could be—we didn’t always agree on the best way to achieve it. And whatever friction those differing opinions might have caused between us was exacerbated by how badly
we all wanted to succeed. I’ve seen this in other companies, where everyone cares so much about the mission, they forget to care about one another. Our collective passion— one of
our greatest strengths—was in danger of becoming a dangerous weakness. Given everything we’d done to build a culture of collaboration, excellence, and leadership, we needed to
learn how to embrace tension, too, or everything we’d built would be lost. Don’t Go to Bed Angry We started with that old chestnut people tell honeymooners: Don’t go to bed angry.
(Now that I’m married, I’m not certain this is the best marital advice, but I stand by it as far as professional relationships are concerned.) We went so far as to make this a
rule, drilled over and over in pre- meal: don’t leave work if you’re harboring feelings of frustration or resentment toward a colleague or the job itself; make sure to talk things
through before heading home. In the heat of service, a seemingly minor disagreement—for example, whether it’s more important to get a check down on table 28 before clearing dessert
plates from 24—could easily mushroom into a situation where two excellent people weren’t communicating at all. But because we’d talked about this so much in pre-meal, all a manager
would have to say to them at the end of the night were those five words: “Don’t go to bed angry.” Thirty minutes later, you’d see the two servers talking in the hallway— and the
next night, they’d have a fantastic service together in the same section. In my experience, people usually want to be heard more than they want to be agreed with. Even if neither
of them managed to change the other’s mind, at the very least they’d have shown each other respect by taking the time to listen. Even if they didn’t achieve resolution, they’d both
feel lighter when they headed off to bed. Find the Third Option I remember a battle Daniel and I had after our first big renovation. A charger is the decorative plate waiting at
your place setting when you arrive at many fine-dining restaurants. You don’t eat off these plates; in fact, they’re generally removed before the first course arrives. I think
