NEEDED A BIT of Miles Davis.” I remember reading that out loud to Daniel in the windowless back office we shared. He screwed up his face and, in his heavy Swiss accent, asked me:
“What the hell does that mean?” I had no idea, but I wanted to find out. I was reading an old review of Eleven Madison Park, written by Moira Hodgson for the New York Observer. The
review, which had come out in April 2006—just a few months before I’d arrived at EMP, and a few months after Daniel had gotten there—was a good one. Hodgson had given the
restaurant three and a half out of four stars, which might have been better than they deserved, given that they were still struggling to get food to the right tables. But I wasn’t
reading that old review to find out what we could do better; I’d unearthed it because at the time we were looking for language to articulate our vision to the team. We were
satisfied with our mission statement—to be the four-star restaurant for the next generation—but that was the what. We needed the how. Don’t Try to Be All Things to All People
Speaking of reviews and criticism—I read it. All of it. Every word (with the exception of most comment sections). I’m always interested in what others, and not just the esteemed
critic from The New York Times, think about what we’re doing. If your business involves making people happy, then you can’t be good at it if you don’t care what people think. The
day you stop reading your criticism is the day you grow complacent, and irrelevance won’t be far behind. But I don’t change something every time one or two people say they don’t
like something—maybe not even if a lot of them don’t like it! If you try to be all things to all people, it’s proof that you don’t have a point of view—and if you want to make an
impact, you need to have a point of view. Restaurants are creative pursuits. As with most creative endeavors, there’s no clear right or wrong. The choices you make are always going
to be subjective, a matter of opinion. What criticism offers you, then, is an invitation to have your perspective challenged—or at least to grow by truly considering it. You might
stick with a choice you’ve been criticized for or end up somewhere completely different. The endgame isn’t the point as much as the process: you grow when you engage with another
perspective and decide to decide again. Articulate Your Intentions Unlike his fellow greats Dizzy Gillespie or Duke Ellington, who developed signature sounds and spent their
careers refining them, Miles Davis reinvented himself—radically, drastically—with every consecutive album. Those reinventions often alienated fans and infuriated critics—and,
equally often, went on to challenge and change modern music. Davis’s influences were incredibly eclectic and wide-ranging. He was in dialogue with rock, pop, flamenco, and
classical music from the Western world, as well as with Indian and Arabic musical ideas—all while he was reinventing jazz, the quintessential American art form. He could be
difficult. He’d yell at reporters who asked stupid questions and was known for turning his back on audiences. (Side note: I did not look to Miles Davis when it came to inspiration
for our hospitality.) And yet, Davis was also a fantastic collaborator. He went out of his way to make music with and to promote some of the most incredible musicians of the
twentieth century—greats like John Coltrane, Bill Evans, Cannonball Adderley, Wayne Shorter, Red Garland, Paul Chambers, Wynton Kelly, and too many others to name. Not only did he
partner freely and openly with those musicians on his work in the studio, he encouraged them to find their own voices, pursue their own projects, and thrive in their own careers.
To this day, I can’t say for sure what Moira Hodgson was trying to tell us. But the more we learned about Miles and the approach he took to his work, the more inspired we became
about how we wanted to approach ours. That throwaway reference turned out to be the greatest gift anyone could have given us. We had been looking for a way to put our ambitions and
values into language, to find words for what we wanted to be. Researching Miles gave us eleven of them. I had learned from my dad the importance of intentionality—knowing what it
is you’re trying to do, and making sure everything you do is in service of that goal. From Danny, I’d learned the importance of articulating that intention to our team. But Daniel
and I hadn’t done that yet at EMP. The two of us had spent hours together, talking and planning and dreaming; we were fundamentally aligned in an intuitive way. Still, a hundred
and fifty people worked for us at EMP, and every one of them had to be aligned with the mission. We needed language. Language is how you give intention to your intuition and how
you share your vision with others. Language is how you create a culture. It was lucky the Hodgson review referenced a musician, because I love music and have played it my whole
life. After the review, I started listening to more Miles Davis, both inside the restaurant and out. Once I was more familiar with his music, I read everything I could find about
Miles and about his creative process—specifically what other musicians said about the approach he took to making music and how that process resulted in the enormous impact he had
on the form. Over the next month or two, I worked with the team to create a list of the words that came up over and over again when critics and other musicians talked about Miles:
Cool Endless Reinvention Inspired Forward Moving Fresh Collaborative Spontaneous Vibrant Adventurous Light Innovative These resonated with us and became a road map of sorts. (The
list was long, but we wanted eleven.) The review had been right: if our restaurant was going to evolve, it did need more Miles Davis. We printed a large sign with those words
underneath our logo and hung it in our kitchen. That sign became a touchstone, a guiding light, a way to hold ourselves accountable. Whenever we were brainstorming or facing a
difficult decision, we looked at the list. The restaurant would change radically over the years that followed, but we felt confident that what we were doing would make sense, as
long as we stayed true to the words on that list. “Cool” was the first word on the list. That seemed right, as we’d already articulated the importance of that concept for
ourselves: if we were going to create a four-star restaurant for the next generation, it was going to have to be cool. In the years to come, many would say “endless reinvention”
was the defining characteristic of our restaurant, which did change, over and over again—not ever for the sake of change itself but because in order to be the best in the world, we
had to be authentic. For us, that meant serving to others what we wished to receive, and as we grew and matured and evolved, what we wanted to receive changed, and so did what we
served to others. But of all the words on that list, “collaborative” was the one we seized on as the first one to pursue. It stood out to us, almost as if it had been highlighted:
the one word that would provide us with the key to all the others on the list. Strategy Is for Everyone The fact we’d found fundamental inspiration from a restaurant critic
pointing to a jazz trumpeter gave us the idea there might be merit in looking for guidance in other, unexpected places—especially those outside the metaphorical walls of the
restaurant world. When companies expand, they often say, “The bigger we get, the smaller we have to act.” (This was a mantra at Shake Shack.) At EMP in the early days, we went the
other way. We were a single restaurant—part of a bigger company, but operated as if we weren’t, with a huge amount of autonomy. We were little, but we wanted to act big. We looked
at organizations known for extraordinary company cultures —huge companies, like Nordstrom and Apple and JetBlue. They all held strategic planning sessions, or long-form meetings
where groups from across the organization got together to brainstorm ways for the company to grow. (Very corporate-smart.) This was a revelation to us; the practice is still
virtually unheard of in the restaurant world. It was also a relief. Up until then, Daniel and I had been doing all the decision-making and goal-setting by ourselves. Why, when we’d
assembled a crew of vibrant, bright young people who loved restaurants and food and hospitality? No matter how ambitious or innovative we were, we could never hope to match the
combined brainpower of our entire staff. Immediately we could see how inviting our team to take part in identifying and naming the goals of the company would increase the
likelihood we’d all meet those goals together. Of course we’d be able to come up with more (and better!) ideas if they were involved—not to mention the sense of ownership they’d
get from making those contributions. Over time, our strategic planning meetings became brainstorming sessions, where we’d decide as a collective what we wanted to do in the year to
come. But that first year, we posed only one question: What do we want to embody? We wanted to be one of the best restaurants in New York. We wanted to make our restaurant
excellent without sacrificing warmth, contemporary without compromising standards. But before we set out on that journey, we needed to know how we characterized ourselves, both as
individuals and as a team. Our first-ever strategic planning meeting took place in 2007. We closed the restaurant for the day—admittedly unreasonable—and invited everyone who
worked at EMP to come together and strategize as a team about our future. This inclusivity was important. At many of the companies we’d studied, strategic planning was reserved for
upper management, but we included everybody on the team, from the assistant general manager and the chef de cuisine all the way to the dishwashers, prep cooks, and assistant
servers, which is what we called our bussers. We were lucky we were small enough for that to be possible, because a busser sees all kinds of things a general manager never can. If
we were serious about every detail, then everyone’s perspective and vantage point would be valuable. On the day itself, I introduced the concept of the meeting, explained what we
hoped to get out of it—and got out of the team’s way. They broke into ten groups, scattered across the restaurant, each gathered around a notebook. I spent the day walking from
group to group, noting as people got excited, argued, and laughed with one another. I dropped in but was careful not to contribute. This was their time. Because I didn’t want
anyone to feel that they couldn’t speak freely, we’d had the dining room and kitchen managers do their strategic planning the day before. On the day of the team meeting, managers
had a different role: the sous-chefs came out into the dining room and took custom sandwich orders from the staff, while the dining room managers staffed the kitchen, putting the
orders together. (Give people a safe space to mess with their bosses, and some of them are going to go for it—I remember one request for a turkey sandwich featuring one slice of
untoasted wheat, one slice of toasted rye, and three dots of mayo.) These two groups switching roles left everyone with a new appreciation for the difficulties their counterparts
faced every night. In the afternoon, the ten groups stood up to present what they’d come up with, and we saw how aligned we were. Ultimately, four words took center stage. None of
them were particularly groundbreaking on their own, but we determined they could be—if we could embody all of them simultaneously. Education Passion Excellence Hospitality
Education was a no-brainer. We had always known that we wanted to build a culture based on teaching and learning, and to hire those who were curious about what they didn’t know and
generous with what they did. Similarly, we wanted people who were passionate about the mission, as fired up as we were about what we were trying to accomplish. But it was the two
remaining words on the list—and the inherent conflict between them—that would inform everything we did going forward. Choose Conﬂicting Goals Hospitality and excellence. Those two
concepts? They’re not friends. It’s easy to have a sweet culture of hospitality if you’re not going to be maniacal about precision and detail. Who cares if the waitress at the
diner forgot to bring your Coke? What’s a little sloppiness between friends? And it’s pretty easy to scare your staff so they almost never, ever make a technical misstep in the
dining room. But, all ethical objections aside, if they’re living in constant fear of being caught in a mistake, you’re not going to get their most realized, relaxed selves
interacting with your guests. In fact, I could hear the tension between these two concepts when I was walking around that first strategic planning meeting. Some people were arguing
passionately about the importance of welcome and warmth and connection, while others were convinced nothing should take precedence over an impeccably trained staff and
spit-polishing every formal aspect of the restaurant to a perfect shine. Putting both hospitality and excellence on our list was a way of recognizing that success was going to come
from approaching the problem of hospitality vs. excellence in the most difficult way possible: in order to succeed, we needed to be good at both. This wasn’t an either/or—it was an
and. Later, I would learn that the management guru Roger Martin calls this “integrative thinking.” In When More Is Not Better, he argues that leaders should actually go out of
their way to choose conflicting goals. Southwest Airlines, for instance, set out to be both the lowest-cost airline in America and number one in both customer and employee
satisfaction. Those goals would seem to be in opposition, and perhaps they are. But much of the time, they’ve succeeded at all three. Certainly, the efforts they’ve made toward
those contradictory goals have done wonders for their bottom line: for the last half century, Southwest has been the most profitable airline in the country. As Martin says,
multiple conflicting goals force you to innovate. We’d seen it ourselves. When I’d arrived at EMP, one faction had been sacrificing hospitality in the name of precision and
excellence, while the other had been delivering warmer service with less finesse. Those who survived and thrived with us had been able to see the merit in the other group’s
priorities. By putting both words on our list, we were acknowledging that we would need to recognize the inherent friction between hospitality and excellence. We would need to
explore that contradiction and embrace it— integrating two opposing ideas and embodying both simultaneously. Know Why Your Work Is Important When I was coming up in hospitality, it
was pretty common for parents to lament their children’s decision to pursue a career in restaurants. They wanted their kids to be doctors, or lawyers, or bankers; they didn’t want
them to serve other people—and especially not as a career. I had a different point of view. I wanted our team members to understand that hospitality elevates service not only for
the person receiving it, but for the person delivering it. Serving other human beings can feel demeaning, unless you first stop and acknowledge the importance of the work and the
impact you can have on others when you’re doing it. I wrapped up that first strategic planning meeting by telling the team, “The moment you start to pursue service through the lens
of hospitality, you understand there’s nobility in it. We may not be saving people’s lives, but we do have the ability to make their lives better by creating a magical world they
can escape to—and I see that not as an opportunity, but as a responsibility, and a reason for pride.” I took a call recently from a Cornell hotel-school grad looking for career
advice. The first thing he said was, “I’m trying to figure out whether or not I want to stay in this horrible industry.” It was a short call; I told him pretty quickly it sounded
like he shouldn’t. No matter what you do, it’s hard to excel if you don’t love it. I’ve had bad days and weeks like everyone else, but I’ve always been able to say, “I can’t
imagine doing anything else,” because I’ve always been able to tap into what’s important about my job. I genuinely believe that in restaurants we can give people a break from
reality even just for a short time—and, as cheesy as it sounds, that we can make the world a better place. Because when you’re really, really nice to people, they’ll be really nice
to others, who will in turn pay it forward. That energizes me, even when I’m depleted. I’ve made it my mission to help the people who work for me see what’s important about what
they do. Even at MoMA, we didn’t see our guests as a bunch of customers looking for lunch; we saw them as museumgoers— people on an adventure, realizing their dream of being
inspired at one of the greatest modern art museums on earth. That simple shift had an automatic and profound impact on how our team acted, and on the hospitality our guests
received. I speak to people across industries and in different fields. When I encounter someone who thinks their work doesn’t matter, it’s usually because they haven’t dug deep
enough to recognize the importance of the role they play. When I spoke at a real estate conference, it was easy for me to tell when someone was operating with passion and purpose.
Many told me they sold houses; the great ones understood they were selling homes. This applies to every industry I can think of. You can be in the financial services business, or
in the business of providing people with a plan so they can provide a future for their families. You can be in the insurance business, or in the business of offering people the
comfort of knowing they and their loved ones are covered, safe and secure, no matter what happens. It’s the difference between coming to work to do a job and coming to work to be a
part of something bigger than yourself. Without exception, no matter what you do, you can make a difference in someone’s life. You must be able to name for yourself why your work
matters. And if you’re a leader, you need to encourage everyone on your team to do the same. CHAPT ER 10 CREATING A CULTURE OF COLLABORATION THE DAY AFTER THE STRATEGIC planning
meeting, the air in the restaurant was charged with promise and excitement—and that energy showed no signs of dissipating in the weeks that followed. Our passionate and creative
team had a say in where the restaurant was going and were willing to work even harder because they had a stake. We’d gotten so much out of that single day; I couldn’t wait to
implement more consistent and creative ways to build collaboration more fully into our culture. We’d struck gold, and I was unabashedly greedy for more. I wanted collaboration to
mean everyone, every single day. Choose Worthy Rivals In The Infinite Game, Simon Sinek writes about choosing a worthy rival: another company that does one or more things better
than you, whose strengths reveal your weaknesses and set you on a path of constant improvement. When I read that, I thought immediately of a dinner Daniel and I had at Per Se in
late 2006—or, more specifically, of my nightcap afterward. Before marriage and the birth of my daughter, I ended most nights in my apartment with a glass of wine and an open
notebook. Those journaling sessions—part diary, part mea culpa, part vision board, part to-do list— were where my most inspired ideas came from. Daniel and I spent a lot of time
studying other, more established and successful fine-dining restaurants. What were they doing better than what we were doing? What could we learn? What could we borrow and make our
own? And in New York City, Per Se was the best of the best. I’d been to Thomas Keller’s celebrated California restaurant the French Laundry with a girlfriend years before, and I
counted it—along with that first dinner at the Four Seasons and the meal with my dad in the Skybox in Daniel Boulud’s kitchen—as one of the most memorable restaurant experiences of
my life. I wasn’t even interested in fine dining at the time, but our meal there was so extraordinary, it transcended all my hesitations. The whole experience was so freaking
excellent, in every way, it felt entirely new. The French Laundry is one of the best restaurants in the world, so nobody was surprised when Keller’s New York debut instantly became
a standard-bearer of fine-dining excellence. While EMP was far from being in Per Se’s league, Daniel and I were paying close attention to every single thing they did. So after that
dinner at Per Se, I was feverishly taking notes on our experience, which had been spectacular. Every course had been an inspiration. I loved the playfulness of the famous salmon
tartare cornet, a nod to a child’s ice-cream cone, and was swept away by the luxuriousness of the presentations, including a cascade of custom-made porcelain plates in ascending
sizes. And I was struck by the effortless way Thomas Keller seemed able to elevate a humble idea, like coffee and donuts, into an opulent surprise. The precision behind all that
elegance was not lost on us. A small example: we’d been invited on a tour of the kitchen, filled with state-of- the-art equipment and so meticulous and beautifully designed I
thought Daniel might burst into tears. While we were walking through, we noticed that the blue tape used to secure a tablecloth to the pass wasn’t torn, but neatly cut with
scissors. The attention, to every nearly invisible detail, filled us with awe. Then, at the end of our meal, when we were already stupefied with delight, a showstopper: our server
presented us with a board of twenty- four different chocolate truffles in three rows—dark, milk, and white— and conversationally ran through a detailed description of every single
one of them. It was a feat of memory so audacious, so superhuman, it might as well have been a magic trick. I scribbled frantically. Finally, I got to the cup of filter coffee I’d
been served after dinner. It was a perfectly fine cup of coffee, but because everything else about that meal had been so unbelievably perfect perfect, that just-okay cup of coffee
stood out. And it made me think about Jim Betz. Tap in to Their Passions—Then Give Them the Keys Jim Betz was an unrepentant coffee geek who worked with me at EMP. I’d gotten into
coffee a little bit when I was running the cafés at MoMA and was lucky enough to live around the corner from Ninth Street Espresso, one of the first serious espresso bars in the
city. The owner, Ken Nye, was notoriously exacting: he would adjust the coarseness of the grind throughout the day in response to the humidity outside, and toss any shot he felt
wasn’t up to snuff. Jim was Ken’s nephew, as passionate and knowledgeable as his uncle. He was also deeply committed to our restaurant. He’d shown up for his interview with a huge,
Williamsburg-hipster, lumberjack-style beard, which I told him he’d have to shave off if he wanted the job. He arrived the next day with a naked chin, for the first time in years;
I don’t know if there’s a greater sign of commitment. Jim was much (much) more knowledgeable on the subject of coffee than I was, but I knew just enough to be fun for him to talk
to, and the two of us would often find each other at family meal to chat about a new shop with high standards or some excellent beans we’d tried. Though Jim was only in his early
twenties, I learned from him whenever we compared notes. So I couldn’t help but anticipate his disappointment when I told him about that just-okay cup of coffee at Per Se. The
truth is that while that “perfectly fine” cup of coffee was somewhat shocking in the context of our otherwise extraordinary meal, it was pretty unsurprising, given the state of
coffee service at fine-dining restaurants at the time. You went to those restaurants expecting incredible food and amazing wine. Those were expected: table stakes, the price of
admission. The ancillary programs, though—the cocktail to start your meal, the cup of tea or coffee at the end—were mediocre. And this remained true, even though there had been a
complete revolution in those areas outside those hallowed walls. It had been a long time, for instance, since beer had meant the pale, flavorless industrial lager that dominated
the commercial market in the 1950s. Thousands of small, independent breweries all over the world were creating beers with complex flavors that could more than stand up to excellent
food. So maybe there’d been no such thing as a beer pairing at a four-star restaurant in the eighties—but by 2006, it should have been inconceivable to imagine a four-star
restaurant for the next generation without one. The same was true for cocktails: if most people who cared about food knew that a proper Manhattan should be stirred, not shaken, why
were so many places still making airport-lounge-quality drinks? And why would a thousand-dollar meal end with generic, machine-filtered coffee, when I could stop and have a
glorious, high-grade, single-origin shot pulled by a professional barista at a hole-in-the-wall like Ninth Street on my way in to work? These programs lagged because nobody was
paying attention to them. Even today, in most fine-dining restaurants, the person running all the beverage programs is the wine director. That person is, by definition, fanatical
about wine and has devoted their life to studying it; the majority of their travel, reading, and professional education has been in wine—not beer, or espresso, or cocktails, or
tea. This was true even if your wine director was one of the best in the world—and I knew that because the wine director at EMP, John Ragan, was one of the best in the world. A
wine director didn’t have the time to become a real expert in these other beverages, while also curating a wine list for one of the city’s best restaurants. My team, on the other
hand, was crowded with young people who were wildly enthusiastic about various aspects of food and drink. A crew of them would take the train to Queens on their days off to visit
outdoor beer gardens with sixty obscure microbrews on tap. Another routinely disappeared into a nondescript office building in Midtown to taste flights of first-flush gyokuro—green
tea grown in the shade and prepared with water a full sixty degrees below boiling. And of course, there was Jim, waxing encyclopedic about ethical coffee-growing regions and
precision- pour kettles. Passion was one of the core values we’d committed to pursuing during our strategic planning meeting. And so the last thing I wrote in my journal after that
epic dinner at Per Se was: “Jim should be in charge of our coffee program.” With that, the ownership program at Eleven Madison Park was born. Kirk Kelewae was a Cornell grad who
had joined the company all revved up about what we were doing. He was clearly going places, but, like every new hire, he started as a kitchen server, running plates of food from
the kitchen to the dining room. Kirk also happened to be wild about beer, and I was sure he’d be the perfect steward of our program, but when I first sat down with him, he was
skittish—as most twenty-two-year-olds would be—about the responsibility until I convinced him we’d be there for him, every step of the way. We introduced him to all our vendors,
knowing he would soon introduce us to new ones. I came to love watching beer distributors arrive in the dining room, expecting to give the Eleven Madison Park wine director a taste
of some sensational new brew, only to find themselves sitting across from a baby-faced food runner, only recently able to legally order a drink himself. We gave Kirk a budget and
showed him how to manage it. He learned how to do inventory and how to order. Then we told him: “It’s yours now. Go make it awesome.” He didn’t need to be told twice. He attacked
every aspect of our beer service—from how we stored the bottles, to the glassware we used, to the technique we used to pour it. He read every trade publication and hunted down the
most rare and obscure beers. All this extra work was driven by his own passion, and his youthful eagerness enchanted producers, who’d find ways to sneak him a couple of highly
allocated bottles they’d made only a few dozen of. I was thrilled but not overly surprised when, a year into Kirk’s reign, Eleven Madison Park was listed as one of the best beer
programs in America in a number of different publications. Not only did our beer program improve exponentially, but Kirk’s fervor was contagious; we all caught the beer bug because
nobody wanted to let him down. He’d pour tastes and chase you down in the hallways: “Hey— you’ve got to taste this gruit!” (Know what that is? Neither did I. Thanks to Kirk, I can
now tell you that it’s a medieval-style beer brewed using bitter botanicals instead of hops. Apparently, it’s a thing.) Similarly, Sambath Seng, another food runner, took over our
tea program. She flew to Las Vegas to attend the World Tea Expo and introduced herself to distributors who were buying tea directly from gardens in India and China and Thailand and
Taiwan and Korea and Japan. She taught us about teas that had been roasted, as well as others processed with steam. Because she cared deeply about water purity, precisely
calibrated brewing times and temperature combinations, and how proper teaware should be warmed and handled, we cared, too. Cocktails were next. I got our bar team together and
said, “I want to have a cocktail program as good as PDT.” PDT was a cocktail bar in the East Village, run by my friend Jim Meehan. The initials stood for Please Don’t Tell, a
reference to the tiny bar’s covert location, which you accessed, speakeasy-style, through a phone booth in Crif Dogs, a hole-in- the-wall hot dog joint. It was widely recognized as
one of the best bars in the world. One of our bartenders said, “That’s ridiculous; it’s not possible.” It could take a bartender at the high-end cocktail bars ten full minutes to
make a drink. That type of service would be difficult to mimic in a restaurant setting, with a hundred and forty seats to serve, not six. But as anyone who’s worked for me will
tell you, “We can’t” is not my favorite phrase. I come by this honestly. In a particular season of my youth, I made the mistake of telling my dad about something I couldn’t do. The
next morning, the house was covered in printed, fortune-cookie- size pieces of paper: “Success comes in cans; failure comes in can’ts.” I never said it in front of him again. I
also had a lot of faith in the guy I was talking to. His name was Leo Robitschek. Maybe you’ve heard of him—he’s one of the foremost mixologists in the world now. But at the time,
he was working at EMP while putting himself through medical school. Leo had always been full of great ideas, but he was also the squeakiest wheel, the person on the staff who never
failed to let you know why what you were doing was fundamentally flawed and never going to work. He completely transformed once given an ownership role, as if he hadn’t wanted to
commit to greatness until he was in charge. At the helm, he went from being our most outspoken in-house critic to a true ambassador for the restaurant—and an absolute guru in the
world of quality cocktails. Then, of course, there was Jim. In charge of coffee, he immediately switched our supplier to Intelligentsia, one of the best roasters at the time. He
started making coffee tableside, giving our guests a choice between a classic Chemex pour-over or a vacuum-pot siphon system, which combined the best attributes of the immersion
and filter methods and had the added benefit of being thrilling to watch in action. Thanks to Jim (and, indirectly, to Per Se), an after-dinner cup of coffee at EMP went from being
a just-fine, bulk-ordered afterthought to a highly entertaining, exquisitely crafted, educational, and theatrical experience. Most important, you ended up with a damn fine cup of
coffee. Find the Win/Win/Win Steve Ells, the founder of Chipotle, spoke eloquently at the Welcome Conference about the positive impact of giving his team more responsibility. Most
fast-food companies process ingredients at a plant because they don’t trust the teams at the stores to do it; unsurprisingly, the food arrives tasting like it’s been on a truck for
a couple of days. Ells believed that, with proper training, his in-house employees could make better, fresher food. He discovered that when he gave the teams responsibility, they
became more responsible; elevated by his trust in them, they stepped up into the role. The team was empowered, the food tasted better, and customers felt better about the food they
were eating because they could see living human beings chopping tomatoes and grilling chicken. It was a win/win/win. It was for us, too. Our staff loved the ownership programs.
Because every single person who worked for us started as a food runner, some of them could work there for three years before they became a captain. These ownership programs gave
these motivated, creative people a project to engage with while they earned their stripes. And the investment of time and trust and education was almost always worth it, because
when we mentored someone into full ownership, our jobs became easier over the long term. When Leo was handling cocktails and Kirk was taking care of beer, our wine director, John
Ragan, didn’t need to think about those beverages or about coffee or tea. Our already stellar wine program got better because John had more time and energy and capacity to devote
to it, while all those other programs, so inherently mediocre at so many other fine-dining restaurants, became absolutely best in class. And everyone in the restaurant, whether
they were working or eating there, benefited from the wonderful alchemy that comes when fervor has the room to run. Kirk eventually became close with Garrett Oliver, the mad genius
who runs Brooklyn Brewery. So when Leo, through his friendship with Julian Van Winkle, got an empty Pappy barrel from the legendary Kentucky distillery, we shipped it to Brooklyn
Brewery, and Garrett aged a custom beer for us in it. It was an extraordinary outcome— a genuinely special, playful collaboration that would never have come about if our wine
director had stayed in charge of the beer program. When we saw what a tremendous success we were having with the beverage programs, our management team came up with a list of every
aspect of the restaurant that could benefit from some attention, including linens, side work, and educational training. These were less shiny, but they would make a real difference
in the experience of those who worked there, and on our bottom line. An example: the guy who took over CGS (which stands for “china, glass, and silver”—sexy as it gets, right?)
dedicated himself to reducing breakage. He discovered the racks in the dish room were half an inch too short, so the stems poked up above the top when the glasses went through the
dishwasher. A couple of new glass racks later, and he’d eliminated loss by 30 percent. That’s serious money, and a major morale booster, as it also meant that we no longer ran out
of water glasses in the middle of service. Then he sent the handyman out for thick rubber matting, installed it on the stainless steel table that held plates waiting to be washed,
and bingo— no more chips on the raised rim at the bottom of our expensive, handmade ceramic chargers, either. These weren’t line items lost on a manager’s to-do list, crowded with
a thousand other things, but minor, inexpensive fixes implemented by a young person paying close attention. These small shifts saved the restaurant thousands of dollars in the
first couple of months. And while some of these programs affected the guests more directly than others, you didn’t have to know what the linen closet or the glass racks looked like
to feel the effects. We didn’t assign these ownership programs; participation was strictly on a volunteer basis. And while many who stepped up happened to be knowledgeable about
the area they’d chosen, they didn’t need to start out an expert. All we asked was that they be interested and curious and have the first inklings of a passion. “It Might Not Work”
Is a Terrible Reason Not to Try I’m not going to lie: it’s much easier to not share ownership—at least to start. (This is the “It’s quicker to do it myself” problem.) But refusing
to delegate because it might take too long to train someone will only get in the way of your own growth. At the beginning, the young people running these ownership programs did
require tons of oversight and encouragement and advice. Mentoring them was a lot of work. And there were bumps in the road. Yes, we’d set up guardrails so Kirk couldn’t lose a
million bucks in beer, but a kid right out of hotel school is naturally going to make more mistakes than someone with ten years of experience running a beverage program. And while
it does take more time to fix someone else’s mistake than to do it yourself in the first place, these are short-term investments of time with long-term gains. If you insist on a
manager having previous managerial experience, you’ll never be able to promote a promising server into the role. By definition, then, it’s impossible to promote from within if you
wait until an employee has all the experience they need. Often, the perfect moment to give someone more responsibility is before they’re ready. Take a chance, and that person will
almost always work extra hard to prove you right. Given that I eventually promoted Kirk to the position of general manager of EMP—you could say the investment paid off. While I’m
being candid, there’s another reason it’s easier not to do this: it might not work. We learned the hard way, for instance, that it was best if the person running the linen program
was a hardheaded organizational dynamo who could stay on top of inventory, manage expenses, and take pleasure in maintaining a tidy, operationally efficient closet—not a visionary
dreamer. But if we were trying to encourage people to take a shot, we couldn’t penalize them if they didn’t succeed; we simply found another area where they could invest their
time. It’s always been my belief that “It might not work” is a terrible reason not to try an idea, especially one that has the potential upside of making the people who work for
you more engaged with your mission. The Best Way to Learn Is to Teach My dad says that the best way to learn is to teach, and he taught me to study for tests as if I were going in
to deliver a presentation. I found that if I studied the material as if I was going to have to turn around and teach it, I learned it much more thoroughly than I would have
otherwise. At EMP, I made teaching part of our culture. The spirit of collaboration that came out of the ownership program was inspiring to all of us, but asking someone to take
over an entire department was an enormous commitment. So when John Ragan began a weekly meeting called Happy Hour, dedicated to the wine, beer, and cocktails on our menu, we
encouraged the team to step in and give presentations of their own. A onetime presentation was much less of an obligation than taking over an ownership program—and it was fun,
because the people who worked for us loved food and wine. Whether they’d had a lightbulb moment with a glass of Burgundy at a wine bar and wanted to know more about the history of
the region or had finally tasted a sherry that wasn’t like sneaking a sip at their grandmother’s bridge game, presenting at Happy Hour was an excuse to do research, then share what
