20% off of any plan that you sign up for for lifetime. 11:37 Now for those of you who do wanna just type this in manually, you can type in greg20 at checkout, and that should take
the 20% off for you. 11:43 Okay, so with that out of the way, let me get logged into my account and I'll show you how to use this. Okay, so once you are logged into your Merch
Informer account, 11:49 all of these things on the left side expand into more tools that you can use for your print on demand business. 11:54 The one that we are specifically
looking for at this stage of the process is within the Keyword Research. It's called the Keyword Finder. 12:00 So once you click on this, you have this one box right here, leave it
on Amazon US. That is going to be the largest marketplace in regards 12:05 to purchases for print on demand, so that's where you wanna source all of your data from. And very
quickly, let me just explain 12:11 that you can be a seller from anywhere in the world and you can list your designs on the Amazon US marketplace and take advantage of all those
sales. 12:18 Doesn't matter where you live, even if you're outside of the United States. We will touch on this more later on in this tutorial, but I just wanted to make sure you
guys were aware of that. 12:24 So in this Keywords box right here, we are just going to right-click and we are going to paste what we had copied, which is the nurse niche. 12:30
Now we're just going to click Search. It literally just takes a second or two to load here. And then you have all of these different things 12:35 that people are searching within
nursing on Amazon. So the very first thing is if you scroll down here, there's only going to be 10 results shown. 12:42 Just switch this 10 to 100. This is going to allow you to
keep scrolling. It makes this whole process a lot more efficient. 12:48 So what this tool has just done for us is broken down the overall topic of nurses into all of these
different subniches within nurses. 12:55 And then one column to the right is how many people per month are searching for that on Amazon. And then there is one tool over on this
right side here 13:01 that I'll show you in a second here that tells you how competitive that subniche is. This runs the data for all of the other T-shirt sellers 13:07 to see how
many other people are competing in these specific subniches. So guys, what we wanna do here is just come over to the left side and see if we can identify any subniches 13:15 that
we could create designs about. Now, not all of these are going to make much sense, like a nurse. I don't know that I could create a specific T-shirt 13:22 that would be different
than nursing in general about a nurse. But as you scroll through here, you might see addictions nurse. 13:27 Okay, that's a specific type of nurse that 1,500 people per month are
searching for. And if we click on this little eye icon right here, 13:35 which is the details icon, it is going to run a competition score for us. Now what this is doing is telling
us how competitive 13:40 that subniche is within all of print on demand on Amazon. So just like that, we got an A grade. This is just like in school, 13:47 so you get an A, if you
did really well, you get an F if you failed and all the letters in between to kind of show you how well you did. 13:53 This is a perfect example of a print on demand niche that you
wanna create designs about because there are 1,500 people per month searching for it 13:59 and there are very low competitors. Okay, so let me close out of this one and let's keep
scrolling through here. Let's find a couple more together 14:05 just so you get a good idea as to what you're looking for. So, African nurse, okay, let's give that a search. 1,700
people per month are searching for that. 14:11 Okay, that's another A rating. Let's keep coming down here. As you can see, this is in alphabetical order. If you do wanna switch
that, 14:17 you can play with these settings up here. I like just going through alphabetical order. It allows you to kind of run into ideas that you wouldn't normally see. 14:23
Let's keep coming down here. Allergy nurse, amazing nurse, ambulatory nurse, 1,500 people per month. 14:28 Let's give that a search. Okay, there's another A rating. So just like
that we found three A-rated niches. That means that 14:34 there's low competition in all of those niches. Those are three niches that I would personally be creating designs about.
Now there is one more metric 14:39 that I'm kind of looking at here and I'll explain what I'm looking at. This is the estimated monthly sales volume. So ambulatory nurses has 32
estimated monthly sales. 14:47 We are not looking for crazy astronomical numbers here. If you were to type in something like nursing, in general, 14:52 you'd probably get an F
score because there are so many people competing in that niche. But on the estimated sales volume, 14:58 it would probably be in the thousands. The whole strategy that you have to
use in print on demand, especially if you are a new seller, 15:03 is you have to find these small niches that other people haven't found yet and be the first one to create design
specifically about that. 15:10 So in this niche, it says there might be only 32 sales per month, but that is absolutely okay because we're creating designs in this one, 15:16 but
we're also creating them in the two other ones that we found here. So you might get five sales per month in one of these, 15:21 you might get 10 sales per month in another one, you
might get 30 in another. But as you start to add up these sales from all of these small sub niches up together, 15:28 that is how you're going to succeed in print on demand. Now
for the sake of dropping golden nuggets throughout this video, I will say that this strategy 15:33 of finding these small subniches and getting a few sales from each of them and
adding them all up is so much better of a strategy 15:40 because it diversifies you. Whereas if you had a really good design in fishing, for example, which has a ton of sales,
15:46 but someone outranked your design, that could have represented over 80% of your sales from your entire business. 15:51 So once you lose that one listing, your sales then
tank. Whereas if you go into all of these different subniches, 15:56 you are going to be super diversified. So if someone outranks one of your listings, it's only going to
represent a small amount of your sales. 16:03 So you won't even see that fluctuation in your overall sales. I hope that that makes sense. And again, if you have any questions on
that, let me know down in the comments. 16:09 Okay, so as you've seen, we've just gone through here in the matter of seconds, we've already found three subniches that have low
competition. 16:14 I like this ambulatory nurse the best. It has the most estimated monthly sales and still that A rating. So that's the one that we'll use for this example. 16:21
Now, as a general rule of thumb for you, as you are scrolling through all of these niches and breaking them down into these subniches, as long as it is listed in this list, 16:28
that means that it's being picked up by Merch Informer as being large enough of a market to actually create designs in and get sales. 16:34 If you haven't been in print on demand
for a long time, you might think that all of these are so small of subniches that you're not going to get any sales from them. 16:40 There really aren't any buyers. Well, there's
kind of two parts here. One is just going to be experience. If you create designs in some of these small niches, 16:46 you might be surprised by how many sales you actually get.
And two, if you look at the monthly search volume, there's over 1,000 people searching for each one How To Find T-Shirt Slogans 16:52 of these every single month. Okay, so now that
we have the idea that we want to create our design about, now let's get into the next step. 16:58 So a lot of people would think that you just take this idea and you take it right
over to design software and you start creating your design. 17:03 But there's actually a couple really important steps in between now and creating the design. The first one is
going to be what are you going to use 17:09 as your phrase or the actual text that your shirt is going to say? In some niches, you can use just a graphic that relates 17:15 to what
this topic is, but I would say for well over 90% of the designs that you create, you're going to need some kind of text on that design. 17:21 So what I recommend doing is coming
over here, right-click this, copy it, and let's go back over to ChatGPT. 17:27 We are going to use artificial intelligence again to help us in this step. So scroll all the way down
here and I'm going to tell ChatGPT 17:32 to write 10 funny T-shirt ideas about... And then we're going to paste it. 17:37 So, ambulatory nurses. Press Enter, give that a search,
and then just watch this write out some T-shirt design ideas for us. 17:43 Okay, so let's see what we've got here. We've got, I'm an ambulatory nurse. I make patients walk the
line. Keep calm and let the nurse handle it. 17:49 Ambulatory nurses, we know when to run and when to walk. If you've ever been to any kind of healthcare, 17:54 the nurses always
seem to be moving pretty quickly. So these are kind of puns or inside jokes that you would understand if you were an ambulatory nurse. 18:00 Now again, the good thing to using
ChatGPT for this is you can always say, write 10 more. 18:05 It's going to give you 10 more ideas that you can use. Or you can say something like, make them shorter, 18:11 if you
want shorter ones. You can keep customizing these until you see some that really jump out at you. So once you've got this list How To Check For Trademarks 18:16 or a couple
different lists that you wanna work with here. The next step before we can actually take these and create our design is we have to check to make sure 18:22 that nobody owns the
trademarks to these. Remember in the beginning of this video, we were talking about the one mistake that people make when creating their designs is infringing 18:29 on other
people's trademarks. Well, the most common example of these are company names, company logos, sports teams, things like that. 18:35 But, people who are other sellers for apparel or
even print on demand, they can formally trademark the rights 18:40 to a specific phrase on apparel. So before we just take these ideas and we use them to sell on our own print on
demand designs 18:46 and turn a profit, we have to make sure that nobody else formally owns the rights to these. If there is one step in this entire tutorial 18:52 that you really
take away from this, it would be this one, 'cause this is the only one that you can really get yourself into legal issues with print on demand. 18:59 So you have to make sure that
you are paying attention to trademarks. So the way to do this is come back over to Merch Informer, 19:04 and we're going to go over to the left side. We're going to go to
Trademarks and then go to Trademark Alerts. 19:09 Now just like with the Keyword Finder, all we have to do is copy-paste all of the ideas we wanna use into this list. And in
between each one you just press Enter, 19:16 go down to the next line and enter it, and then you can build a list as long as you want. So let's take a couple of these ideas. I'm
going to copy paste them into this list 19:22 and we'll check 'em all for trademarks at once. Okay, so I've just gone ahead and copied eight of these into this list. All we have to
do now is click on Save. 19:29 This is going to add them into our list down here, and then we click on the big blue button that says Check trademarks. And then the last step is we
go to our internet browser 19:36 and click on the refresh page. Now when you scroll down here, you're going to have either a green check mark or a red X. 19:42 This is telling you
if that phrase is safe to use for print on demand or if someone owns the rights to it. So we got good results here. 19:47 All of these have a green check mark. That means that all
of these we can use for print on demand. If you do get a red X on any of these, 19:53 do not use that for print on demand. If you upload that to a print on demand marketplace, you
will get that taken down. 19:58 You'll get a copyright or trademark strike on your account, and if you get too many of those strikes, they will close your account entirely. 20:04
So I know that this is a simple step and it only takes a couple seconds to do, but it is such an important step in this process. How To Create T-Shirt Designs That Sell 20:09 So I
really hope that I've made that clear. Okay, so now we're getting into my favorite part in this process. We know what ideas we're going to use for the designs, 20:15 and we know
that nobody owns the trademarks to them. Now we can actually get into our design tool and start creating these designs. 20:21 Again, just to save you as much time as possible. This
is the design tool that I personally use. It is called Placeit.net. 20:26 The reason that I use Placeit is everything on their library, from the fonts to the graphics to the
layouts, 20:31 are all copyright free. So as we talked about with the phrases, they can be trademarks. So someone owns the rights to that. 20:36 Well, it's the same for a graphic
design tool. So, the fonts, the graphics, the layouts, they can all be owned by other people. 20:43 Now, a lot of the other big design tools out there, they don't specify this. So
you may be pulling graphics from their library 20:48 or using different fonts to create really good print on demand designs. But once you upload that to a print on demand
marketplace, 20:53 it may get taken down. You don't know why, because you check the phrase to make sure that no one owns the trademark, but the elements that you used 20:59 in that
design could be owned by other people. So if you can't tell, the copyrights and trademarks is something that I take very seriously 21:05 in print on demand. As you start to grow
your business, it becomes even more important because you're working in scale. So Placeit is the tool that I would recommend for you. 21:12 Again, to be transparent on this one,
this is a paid tool. So if you go to pricing, it's $7.49 per month. 21:18 This is going to be if you purchase it on an annual basis. So you pay for the whole year upfront. If you
do want to buy it on a month-to-month basis, 21:24 I believe it's $15 per month. And I do have a coupon code from them as well. So it's 15% off. 21:29 I will put a link to that one
down in the description. There is no manual coupon code to enter, so you have to click on that link to use it. 21:35 But that brings us down to about $6 per month. Or if you pay on
just a month-to-month basis, it's about $12 per month. 21:41 Now I will say everything in Placeit is unlimited download. So for that one fee, you can download 100, you can download
1,000, 21:46 10,000 designs per month if you really wanted to, all included for that one price. Now, I hope that taking a second 21:52 to justify why I recommend getting these paid
tools is actually helpful because I know when you are starting a business, 21:57 you just want to make money, you don't wanna be spending money. But if I could go back to when I
was starting print on demand, 22:02 I wish I had these tools from day one. It saves so much time and it gives you better results in the end. I spent a lot of my first couple years
in print on demand 22:09 creating my designs by hand, pretty much guessing on the niches because I didn't have tools like these. These tools do it all for you. 22:15 It's kind of
the insider information that the vast majority of other sellers don't have access to. So anyways, I hope that is helpful to know. 22:21 Let me get logged into Placeit and I'll show
you how to start creating these designs. Okay, so once you are logged into Placeit, hover over Designs, hover over Apparel & Print, 22:28 and then click on T-Shirt Designs. This is
going to bring you into their page that has all of their T-shirt designs in one place. 22:34 So if you scroll all the way to the bottom, you can see that there are over 900 pages
of templates. There's something like over 50,000 22:40 different T-shirt templates that you can use here. There's a couple different ways that you can sort these. So you can come
over to the left side, you can do More Filters. 22:46 If you see one of these categories that fits what you were trying to create a design about, you can click on these and it'll
help filter it. 22:51 You can also click over here to Sort by and go to Best Selling or Newest. It's just going to be different ways to see all of their templates. 22:57 Now,
personally, what I recommend doing for you, kind of the fastest way to do this, is just come up to the search bar and type in the niche 23:03 that you were creating your design
about. So let's type in nurse, click Enter, give that a search, and this will show you everything 23:08 that they have based on nurses. It's going to be T-shirt designs, but also
mockups. So just as a side note, once you do create your design, 23:14 you can put that on a mockup and you have full rights to use these photos as well. That is included in your
Placeit subscription. 23:20 So later on in this tutorial, we will talk about free marketing ways to help you get more sales. Well, these mockups, you can use for social media.
23:26 So just know that you have full usage rights to use these as well. Now, right now, we are creating the T-shirt design. So come over to your left side and look for T-Shirt
Designs. 23:33 Now for nurses specifically, it shows that there's only five design templates to use, but if you ever find yourself in this situation, 23:38 just type in something
that is similar to that niche. So let me switch this to doctor. Let's give that a search, and let's see what we over here. 23:45 So let's go to Show More Filters. We'll come down
here, go to T-Shirt Designs. Okay, it shows that there are 158 of these templates, 23:51 so you can still use doctors and nurses interchangeably. So if you ever find yourself in
that situation, just know to search something similar 23:57 and you'll find even more templates that you can use. So scroll through here and pick any of these design templates that
you want to start with 24:02 to create our first design. I really like this one right here. So let's click on this one. It's going to make it bigger just so you can get a better
idea 24:08 as to what that looks like. And they'll show some similar templates over on the right side as well in case you like any of these better. Let's stick with this one, so
we're going to click Edit. 24:15 Okay, so once you get to this page, you're now in Placeit's editor. So all of these elements, you can click and move them around. You can make them
bigger or smaller. 24:22 If you wanna undo something that you did, just click on the back button right here. And then if you do get everything kind of in weird places 24:27 and you
want it to go back to how it started, just click on the Reset layout button. It just really helps when you change a bunch of things on a design just to click Reset layout, 24:34 it
puts everything back, keeping all the new texts and graphics that you put in, but puts it back to that original layout. Okay, so this is the template we're going to use here. 24:40
Let's now go back to our Trademark Alerts and let's pick out which phrase we want to start by creating a design on. So let's just start with the first one, 24:47 walking is my
cardio. I'm just going to copy this, come back over to Placeit. And then back over here, you don't actually click over here to type in. 24:53 You click on the box on the left side
that corresponds to it. So I'm going to select all of this. I'm going to delete that, 24:59 and I'm going to paste what we have copied. This is going to be too long for the first
line. So let's just come over here. I'm going to copy this, and then I'll put it down here. 25:07 We'll just split that onto two lines. So walking is my cardio. As you can see, you
don't really even have to do anything, 25:12 it just fits it to that template. You can click on Reset layout, just to make sure nothing's going to change, everything is how it
started. 25:17 And then you can start to customize this a little bit further. So all of this text right here, you can change the font by just clicking on the font button right
here. 25:23 You can pick any of these. So if you just start clicking around, all of these are going to be copyright-free, commercially usable fonts. 25:28 So nobody owns the rights
to these. You have full usage rights to use them for print on demand and make a profit from them. So if you do wanna change these around, 25:34 just know that you can do that. If
you wanna go back, you can click the back button. Same thing for the font color. So there's a little white box here. 25:40 It's kind of hard to see because it's white on white, but
if you click on that, you can change the font color to any color that you want here. 25:45 And again, if you click off of it, you can go back and you can change it to how you
started. Now, something else that's good to know about these font types and the color 25:51 is that if you go to Custom, you can put in any hex code. So if you have certain brand
colors or you wanna match it to another color, 25:57 click on the pipette and then you can put it anywhere. And let's say you wanna make it this color. Well, you can change that to
any other color that's already on the design. 26:02 So that's a cool feature. I'm going to go back again, just leave it at white. And then same thing for the font. If you do come
over here and you don't see anything 26:09 in this list of suggested fonts, you can just go to More Fonts. And again, this is going to open up into an even bigger list of fonts
that you can use. 26:15 All of those you have usage rights to use. Okay, so that takes care of the text, the fonts, the colors. Now let's come down to these other two boxes. 26:21
This is going to be your graphic box right here. So, what's in the middle. This is one of the best features to Placeit. 26:26 So all of these graphics, and again, you can search
whatever you want here to kind of tailor what these results are. These are all going to be copyright-free, 26:33 commercially usable graphics. When it comes to creating a design
for print on demand, the hardest part is finding the graphics 26:38 that nobody else owns the rights to. And then even further than that, something that I really like about these
graphics is you can just click on them 26:44 and it will replace the graphic in your design automatically. So when you move this, there's no old one behind it. 26:49 You can see
that it just does all of the heavy lifting for you. You don't have to add the new one and then delete the old one and reline it up. 26:55 All of it is just done very quickly. Now,
I'll also show you that when you are in this library over here, you can use all of these, but then you can type in anything else. 27:01 So if you type in something like nurse, you
can click on any of these. You can add them right into your design. You can search doctor. 27:06 You have a massive library that you can use any of the graphics from. Now, another
kind of pro tip that I can give you here is that when you are creating a design 27:12 from a T-shirt design template, always make sure that you are customizing something on that
template. Whether that is changing the text, 27:19 just like we've changed right here, changing the graphic, changing the font, changing the colors, change at least one thing on
that template. 27:25 And that way that template is going to be yours when you upload it to a print on demand website. If you just left this template exactly how it was 27:31 and
you downloaded it as is and uploaded it to a print on demand website, technically, you could do that if you were the very, 27:37 very first person to upload that to the print on
demand marketplace. If, however, someone else has uploaded that design before you 27:43 and now your design is an exact copy of their design, yours will get taken down as a
duplicate. So just know that these templates are an absolute lifesaver. 27:50 They make things way faster to create designs, but always make sure that you are customizing at least
one thing on that template to make it uniquely yours. 27:56 Okay, so looking at this design, I think it's pretty awesome. If I were to change anything here, I think I would just
take this exclamation point out of the end. 28:02 It makes it a little bit harder to read. This is a lot cleaner. Walking is my cardio. I like that graphic in the middle, the
colors, 28:08 everything looks awesome here. So there's one more step before we go to download this, and what that is, is this background color here. 28:13 So this kind of blue
color, if we downloaded it as is right now, this blue color would get printed on the T-shirt. 28:19 You'd have just kind of a square or a rectangle behind your design. This is not
a good look for print on demand. So what you wanna do is come to background color 28:25 and go all the way to the bottom down here to this little checkerboard. That is going to
make a transparent background. 28:30 So now the background is fully removed, and when you upload this to a print on demand website, only this design itself will get printed on that
T-shirt. 28:37 That is super important for print on demand. So this design as it is right now is ready to go. I'm just going to click on Download. 28:42 This is going to give you a
little popup that says Processing your design. Just give this one second to load, and then it'll switch to Click here to download. 28:48 Just click on that. This will allow you to
name this design on your computer. This is really helpful for keeping track of all of the designs that you've made. 28:54 So this one is going to be walking is my cardio, and this
is an ambulatory nurse. 28:59 Okay, let's go ahead and save that. Okay, so just like that, this design file is saved to our computer. As you can see, it has no background, 29:05 so
you can zoom in, zoom out, it has no color behind it. And this file, as is, is ready to be uploaded to print on demand websites. 29:11 So for the rest of this tutorial, we will use
this specific design to go through the whole listing process and how to do all of that. 29:16 However, for you, on your side of this, I would go back to Placeit and then I would go
to Trademark Alerts and I would find out what is the next phrase. 29:23 Okay, my favorite exercise, running to save lives. Go back to Placeit, I'm going to type in doctor again.
29:28 Let's go to T-shirt designs on the left side. And then let's find a different template. And we're going to use that next phrase in it. 29:33 In just doctors alone, there's
158 different results. So you should be able to take each one of those unique phrases from the trademark alerts 29:39 and put them into their own design template. That way, for all
of these designs that you are uploading into the same subniche 29:45 of ambulatory nurses, every different design that you upload is its own unique design. So someone searching
ambulatory nurses 29:51 has a bunch of different options that they could choose from. If they like one design style better than the other. Well, all of those designs are going to
be yours. Best Selling T-Shirt Phrases 29:58 You're giving them a good variety to choose from. Now, as mentioned earlier on in this video, I said that I was going to give you the
beginner and the advanced way to do each one of these. 30:05 So really quickly, I do wanna show you just kind of a hack. This is something that I've learned to do that really helps
for print on demand. 30:10 It gets your scaling of creating designs up very quickly. And what this is, is we use ChatGPT to come up 30:16 with T-shirt design ideas for us. But once
you've been selling print on demand for a long time, you will start to notice in your sales data 30:23 that certain phrases sell better than other phrases. So you can kind of put
together this list 30:28 of the best selling phrases, and you can apply those to all different subniches, all different overall niches. 30:33 And those specific phrases are
generally going to sell the best. It does not matter what niche they're in, as long as you're staying within occupations or hobbies, 30:41 you can use these bestselling phrases to
customize into any of those niches. So this is something that I don't talk about very often, 30:46 but I did mention it in a recent video and you guys said that it was really
helpful. So what I have made for you guys if you don't have enough of this sales data yet, 30:53 is a list of both 10 and 100 of these bestselling phrases that you guys can use to
just kind of copy-paste into all of these niches. 30:59 Now, yes, this does come at a cost because it is really valuable information, and if I give it away for free, it'll just get
oversaturated. 31:05 So I will put a link to these down in the description, whether you want just 10 or all 100, that link will be down in the description for you. 31:11 Now, if
you've made it this far in this tutorial, I'm going to give you one of these totally for free. So I've gone into the resource 31:16 and I've just directly screenshotted one out of
here. This is one that you guys can feel free to use in your own business. But what this is is basically this phrase, 31:23 you take the red Xs and you fill in what is that niche
or that subniche. And then the best uses for this one specifically are occupations. 31:29 Some examples would be gym teacher, diesel mechanic, pediatric nurse. So as you can see,
this is going to fit perfectly. So what you would do is say ambulatory nurse, a noun, 31:36 number one, same as a normal nurse, just much cooler. This is a simple impactful phrase
that has proven to sell for print on demand. 31:43 And as you can see, you can use it for all these different types of nurses, all different types of teachers, all different types
of mechanics. 31:48 As you go through all these occupations and you break them down into the subniches or the different types of that occupation, 31:54 you can just input them into
this phrase and just like that, it can make a ton of different designs. So for this specific phrase, let's go back over to Placeit 32:00 and I'll show you how easy it is to create
this design. Okay, so on Placeit, rather than looking within nurses specifically, just go back to Designs, 32:06 Apparel & Print and T-Shirts. This is going to bring you to all of
their designs. And really what we need for this design is just a definition. 32:13 So this can be from any niche, it's really not going to matter. And really what you wanna do is
just scroll through all of these until you see one that would fit 32:18 kind of a definition format. So let me scroll through here for a second. I'll find one that we can use, and
then we'll actually go through making it. 32:24 Okay, so over on the right side here is a perfect template that we can use. I'm going to open it up. This is a definition-style
template. 32:30 It's going to pull up the similar ones, another definition one over here, and any others that would show up on the right side. This is the one that's going to work
perfect for this. 32:37 Just click on Edit. And then you can start customizing this template with this phrase, just filling everything out on the left side. 32:42 Let me do that
real quick and I'll show you what it looks like. Okay, so I've just customized this and filled in everything how we would use it. 32:47 I've changed some of the fonts around just
so it's a little bit easier to read. And another kind of golden nugget that I can drop for you here is whenever you were doing a text-only design, 32:55 switch the text to a white
text and put that on darker shirts rather than a black text on lighter shirts. 33:01 It seems that it always sells better in this combination. So that's why I've kind of flipped
this and put a black background with white text. 33:06 And the other thing is make sure that the font is very easy to read. That kind of cursive that we had going on here, the
script font, 33:12 you can't really tell what it says at first glance. You wanna make sure that when someone sees your design, it only takes them a split second to understand it.
33:18 If you have cursive or script fonts, a lot of the times it's just too complicated so people can't understand what that design says. 33:24 So this is kind of the more advanced
way to create these designs. And the way that you would do this is once you have this phrase set up, you have ambulatory nurse. 33:31 But if you can remember back when we broke
down nurse into all of these subniches, you had African nurse, 33:36 you had addictions nurse, all of those had A-rated competition scores. So you just switch this from ambulatory
nurse 33:41 to African nurse, you leave everything else just how it is. So same as a normal nurse, just much cooler. And then the last thing, always remember, 33:48 switch out your
background color to transparent just before you go to download that. I always leave it on a dark color so I can see 33:53 what I'm editing, make sure everything looks good. And
then you just come up here and you click on Download. So I've just taken a second here 33:59 just to make all three of these while I was at it. So I have ambulatory nurse, same as
normal nurse, just much cooler. I've got African nurse, and then I've got addictions nurse. 34:06 You can really start to scale up the designing by doing it this way, and you can
then upload each one of these into their own subniches. 34:12 Now the last thing that I'll say about doing it this kind of more advanced way is that that was just by using one of
these bestselling phrases. 34:17 We got all three of these subniches. And you can create 50, you can create 100 different subniches with one phrase. But you can then use all 34:23
of those A-rated subniches again in the next phrase and the phrase after that, all of those bestselling phrases can be customized Which Websites To Upload T-Shirt Designs 34:29
into any of these niches. So with that being said, that's kind of the two ways that you can create your design. Now let's get onto the next step here 34:35 of actually uploading
this design and having it for sale on print on demand websites. Okay, so as mentioned earlier on in this video, 34:41 Amazon is the largest print on demand marketplace. So I
definitely recommend uploading your print on demand designs there, 34:46 but they are not the only print on demand marketplace I recommend uploading to. So let me show you each one
of these websites, 34:51 one by one, just so you know which ones to spend your time uploading to. So first, let's start with Amazon. As mentioned, it is called Amazon Merch on
Demand. 34:58 This is a very basic website, but this really is Amazon's legit print on demand sign-up page. 35:04 So once you come to this page, just click on the Sign up button
right here. It is totally free to become a print on demand seller on Amazon, 35:10 but the only catch is that since Amazon is so big, they get something like a billion or 2 billion
people coming 35:15 to their marketplace every single month. They do not accept all sellers, especially right away. So you can submit your application here 35:22 and it takes up to
14 days to hear back from them if you've been accepted to be a seller on their platform. Now, there are some tips 35:27 and some pieces of advice that I can give you for this
application. I will link to a video down in the description below. 35:33 I recommend watching that after this one. That will walk you through the entire application step by step
and kind of show you what to put 35:39 for each one of the questions. Now, with that being said, I recommend getting your application in for Amazon Merch on Demand today. 35:44
That way you have a headstart on getting accepted. Just know that if they don't accept you on the first try, you can reapply with a different email address. 35:51 So don't be
discouraged if you don't get accepted on the first go. But while you are waiting to hear back from Amazon, you can absolutely get started selling 35:58 on these other websites that
I'll show you right now. So this first one is called Redbubble.com. Redbubble is probably the biggest 36:03 print on demand-specific marketplace out there. Everything on their
marketplace is all done with print on demand. 36:08 So Amazon sells all different types of products and different gadgets and things like that. Redbubble is specifically all print
on demand items. 36:15 Now, what's cool about this is that Redbubble, last time I looked, get something like 10 million people to their website every single month. 36:20 So trust
me when I say there is tons of traffic coming to make purchases. Now before moving on to the next website, just know that Redbubble is totally free to sell on. 36:27 You can create
an account today and you can start uploading your designs. But with that being said, let's move on to the next website I recommend. 36:33 This one is called TeePublic. TeePublic is
identical to Redbubble. In fact, Redbubble purchased TeePublic a couple years ago. 36:40 I would say TeePublic is just a smaller version of Redbubble. However, TeePublic is still
totally free to use. 36:45 You can sign up with your email to create an account and you can start uploading designs today. And now the last website that I'll show you 36:50 is one
that is definitely up and coming here. This one is called Spreadshirt. Again, totally free to use. They are a smaller marketplace. 36:56 They don't get as much traffic, but they're
doing everything right. From being in this business for so long, I can see this one growing into a bigger marketplace. 37:03 So you're going to have a lot less competitors
uploading to Spreadshirt, It's one that I can now definitely stand behind uploading to. 37:09 So those would be all of the websites I recommend. Amazon, get your application in and
wait to hear back. Once you get accepted, definitely upload there. 37:15 And then Redbubble, TeePublic and Spreadshirt. Keep in mind, for these four websites, you can upload the
same design to all four of them 37:22 and sell them on all four of them individually. What's cool about doing passive print on demand on these marketplaces is that they all get
their own traffic 37:28 from their own sources. So someone who's going to Spreadshirt might not shop on Redbubble or TeePublic or Amazon. 37:34 So by uploading your design to all
four of these, you have four times the exposure that you wouldn't otherwise have if you just uploaded to one website. 37:41 Now a couple quick answers to these four websites that
you may be having at this point. One is you don't have to be located in the United States. 37:47 You can create an account on these from anywhere in the world and you can get paid
out. Secondly is, how do you actually get paid out? 37:53 I'll show you in a minute here, but you can set a PayPal or a Payoneer email and that way they will pay you to your
account. 37:59 And you don't need to have a business account set up. You can totally just use an individual PayPal account to receive your profit. 38:05 Speaking of getting paid
out, these websites pay you every single month. It's taken care of automatically so you don't have to request a payout. 38:10 They will pay you whenever you make profit. Now the
two other things that I think would be important to know is that taxes, 38:16 no matter where you are located in the world, if you are making money in some way from a business, you
