do have to pay taxes, 38:21 but you don't have to make it complicated. So wherever you are located, however much money you received during that year, 38:27 when you are doing your
taxes, you just put that total amount that you received in profit in other income on your taxes. 38:32 It's really that easy. I wish this was classified as something that you
didn't have to pay tax on, but it is like any other business in this world. 38:38 I will say though, in print on demand, you don't need to have a business entity set up. You can do
everything just individually kind of as a personal seller 38:45 and then you just add it as other income on your taxes. So don't feel like you need to go through the whole hassle
of setting up a business entity to start print on demand. 38:52 And then the last thing I'll throw in here is just know on these different websites, you don't have to pay for each
order upfront. 38:57 On some other print on demand websites, especially if you're doing active print on demand, whenever you receive an order, 39:02 you then have to pay upfront
before that order gets shipped for the cost of those goods. That way the print on demand provider 39:08 has their cost covered, they can ship it out to the customer, and then you
get the full amount with your profit built in after. 39:14 On all of these websites, the customer is paying the full amount. We just get a split of the profit after. 39:19 So you
don't need to have a card on file, you're not going to get charged for every order. That is just a really nice feature to using these passive print on demand websites. How To
Upload T-Shirt Designs 39:26 Okay, so hopefully all that information is helpful to know. Now let's get back on track here. Let's actually upload our design 39:32 to one of these
print on demand platforms, and I'll show you how to fill out the title, the description, set the pricing, and all of that. So when it comes to these four websites, 39:38 you've got
Spreadshirt, TeePublic, Redbubble, and Amazon. The one that I, hands down, think has the best uploading interface is TeePublic. 39:45 So I'll walk through this on TeePublic with
you. And then the same things that we're going to do for title, description, all of that, applies to the other websites as well. 39:52 I just like the way that TeePublic works.
They make it very easy to upload a listing, especially the first time around. So if you're just getting started here, 39:58 go to Create Account, and then fill in your first name,
last name, email address, country, and set a password. 40:04 And then all the way at the bottom, you're gonna have this little box that says, Yes, I'd like to advertise my products
in offsite marketing. I recommend leaving this turned on. 40:10 This is additional marketing that TeePublic's going to do for you totally for free. Email marketing, retargeting
marketing. 40:16 So these are more sales that they're trying to capture for you, because remember, every time you make a sale, you make a split of that profit 40:21 and they make a
split of that profit. So it's in their best interest to help you sell designs as well. I would leave this turned on, it costs you nothing extra 40:28 to have that turned on, and if
you ever decide that you want to turn that off in your account later on, you have the ability to do that as well. 40:33 So once you've done this, just go ahead and CREATE MY
ACCOUNT, and then it's going to send you a verification email real quick just to make sure that 40:39 that email address is legit. So just go check your inbox real quick and click
on that verification link. Okay, and then once you've clicked on that, 40:44 just go to Account and then go to Log In in the top corner and then sign in with that email address and
that password. 40:50 Okay, so just like that, you get this green bar that says Signed in successfully. And that Create Account now changes to Sell Your Art. 40:56 So all you have
to do is click on Sell Your Art and this is going to bring you into the uploader. So this is going to ask you, do you have a single file 41:02 to upload or do you have multiple
files to upload? We're just going to start with one right now. I'll walk you through this one at a time. 41:07 And then the very first time that you do this, it's going to ask you
to set a storefront name. Now the storefront name is going to be a little, 41:13 clickable link that someone could click on for each one of your listings and it's going to bring
them to all of the designs that you've uploaded to your TeePublic account. 41:20 Back in the day, I would say that this would be really important to try to create a storefront and
send traffic to it, but you don't need to worry about this anymore. 41:27 The way that the marketing and these marketplaces work, these sales are not going to be focused on your
storefront. So you can set this to anything that you like. 41:34 I would say just make sure that you're not using anything that is trademarked, like a company name. Remember we
talked about that before, and make sure that it's not something 41:40 that's vulgar or explicit. You don't want to turn people away from making a purchase from you just because of
the name of your storefront. 41:46 So I'm going to put in GGTees11. You can be as creative as you want with this and just know that it doesn't have to be specific 41:51 to the
niche that you are creating designs in right now because the idea is once we go through here, we are going to go into a ton of different niches overall. 41:58 So don't feel like
this one has to be specific to nurses in this instance. Okay, so once you see that this name is available, 42:04 say Take Me To The Uploader, and now you're able to click on this
PNG button right now. It'll bring you into your computer where you can select the file that you want to upload. 42:11 And this is going to be the file that we downloaded from
Placeit. Okay, just give this one second to load here. It's uploading your design. Okay, here's our design. 42:17 As you can see, it has a transparent background, so it's a little
hard to read, but we know from creating it, this is actually perfect. 42:22 As you scroll down here, something that you'll see is this orange box right here that says Your image
isn't large enough to support all 42:27 of our wall art options. This is totally fine. What they are talking about is if we wanted to print this on a wall tapestry 42:34 or
something really big, this design file that we've created is not upscaled big enough to be able 42:39 to print that way and not be blurry. What we are focused on is a T-shirt-size
print. So it's only going to be as big as a T-shirt. 42:44 So we can totally disregard this message here. We're not focused on wall art anyways. Okay, so with that being said,
scroll down here. 42:50 This is our first section that we're filling out. This is our title, description, main tag, and supporting tags. Once you've done this one time, 42:56 this
process becomes super easy. So let me walk you through it starting with title. So I've done titles a million different ways now. 43:01 I would say the most effective and efficient
way to do this is to put what is on that shirt, which is, walking is my cardio. 43:07 And then what is that niche or subniche? So let me type that in. So walking is my cardio and
then ambulatory nurse. 43:13 So this is what you can put as your title. And it kind of looks incomplete at first, but something to know is that, on these websites, 43:18 they will
automatically put in what that piece of apparel is. Now to give you just kind of a peek ahead, you can upload this on a T-shirt, 43:25 a hoodie, a tank top, crew neck. So, no
matter what someone is selecting, it'll auto-populate what that piece of apparel 43:30 is that they're looking at. So they will put in T-shirt at the end, and then this all makes
sense, but we leave that blank 43:36 because they're going to do it for us. So that is what I would recommend putting your title as. And then I would copy all of this, right-click,
Copy, 43:42 come down here and paste it. And then I'll show you the two ways to do your description. First is going to be the beginner way 43:48 and then I'll show you the a little
bit more advanced way. So for the beginner way, just take the keywords that we have here, walking is my cardio, ambulatory nurse. 43:55 We're going to say this walking is my cardio
T-shirt is perfect for ambulatory nurses. 44:01 What we've just done is taking the keywords, walking is my cardio and ambulatory nurses and split that into a short description that
makes sense. 44:07 So this walking is my cardio T-shirt is perfect for ambulatory nurses. We want to make sure that TeePublic and these other websites know what our shirt is about.
44:14 So I wanna put ambulatory nurses, ambulatory nurses, and then over here you're going to see we're going to do the same 44:20 just to make sure that they know that this shirt
is supposed to be shown to people searching for ambulatory nurses. 44:25 So that is the beginner way to write this description. Feel free to use this. It's just a very simple way
to do this that still works. 44:30 If you wanna a little bit more advanced, what I would do is come back to ChatGPT and say... 44:37 Give that a search. And this is just going to
write a creative one for us. Step up your nursing game with our walking is my cardio T-shirt. 44:42 Perfect for ambulatory nurses, this comfy tee combines humor and dedication,
celebrating those long shifts on your feet. Show off your love for caring and cardio in style. 44:50 Okay, let's copy that. We'll come back over to TeePublic. This is where we're
going to paste it. And just like that, you have a more advanced description, 44:57 which still has the keywords that we want to rank for. Okay, so that is that over here. Let's now
go over to the right side. Our main tag is going to be the big overall niche. 45:04 So for this, we're actually going to type in nurse, we're going to select that. And then in the
supporting tags is where we're going 45:10 to type in ambulatory nurse and all the other things that are relevant to this design. So again, what's really nice about TeePublic 45:15
is it autosuggests these for you. So click on nursing, medical, hospital, doctor, 45:21 nurses day, nursing school, nurse gift idea, nursing student, nurse day, and ambulatory
nurse. 45:31 So by doing it this way, we have plenty of room to put in what that specific subniche is, but by putting in nurse as the overall main tag, 45:37 we're not going to
miss out on the bulk of all that traffic that's coming in searching for nurse designs. So that takes care of all four of these right here. 45:43 Now, just a couple things before we
move on. This is asking if we want to add this into an album, which is basically a niche-specific storefront. 45:50 Back in the day, again, I would recommend doing this and then
sending traffic to that niche-specific storefront. Again, you don't need to do that nowadays. 45:56 There are better ways that I'm about to show you that you can do it without
creating any of these albums. And then the last thing before we move on is, 46:01 does this contain mature content? I'm just going to click No. Yes, you can create mature content.
No, I don't recommend doing it. 46:07 I think you're just opening yourself up to some potential issues down the road. And I think the market for these kind of funny shirts apply to
a lot more people and there's a lot more buyers 46:14 than the mature content. So with that being said, this whole section is done. And as I mentioned before, this same process
applies 46:20 to the other print on demand platforms as well. So once you know how to do this once, you can do the same thing on the other ones. The title and the description can
be written exactly 46:28 the same on TeePublic as they can on the other print on demand platforms. Okay, so scroll down here. We're about halfway through the upload process
already. 46:34 This is going to be what different products could this design be available on? So in print on demand, you don't have to carry any inventory 46:40 and it doesn't cost
you anything extra to offer it on a T-shirt and a hoodie and a tank top and a crew neck because none of these items are printed yet. 46:47 The only thing that's going to change
between these is the pricing for each one of these products because each product costs a different amount to make 46:53 and you wanna make sure that you still have a healthy profit
margin built in. So the very first thing I would recommend doing is when you come through here, 46:59 think about does this specific design that you have created apply to kids or
does it not? So since this is about nurses 47:05 and it's an occupation for adults, I'm going to leave the kid's shirt, the kid's hoodie, the kid's long sleeve all turned off 47:11
because this isn't really a kids-related design. Now when you are coming through here, if your design could be applicable to kids, 47:16 then just turn these on. It's just that
easy. I just wanna create the least amount of friction when someone's coming through here to make a purchase. 47:22 I don't want them to accidentally buy this as a kid's shirt and
then they have to return it and go through that whole process when they were just looking for a regular T-shirt. 47:29 So that's the very first step. The next step here is to pick
the default color. So as you can see, this is white on white, 47:34 it does not look very good. So I'm going to come to default color. I'm going to do either Asphalt or black.
Those are kind of my go-to options 47:40 that always typically look the best as a default color. I'm going to go with black on this one especially 'cause it's a light design. 47:45
It looks really good on the black. So then go down each item one by one, make sure everything looks good. Yes, it all looks good. 47:51 Nothing is cut off. We can leave all these
black. Baseball tee doesn't come as a black, so you have to select what they do have. 47:57 It is black and white. Let's go ahead and select that one. Again, that looks good. Now
the last thing that I would do is come back up to T-shirt and I'm going to zoom in so you can 48:03 see what I'm talking about here. But if you see this dotted line, that is the
print cutoff area. So you wanna make sure that your design 48:09 is not going over the print-cutoff area. If it is, just scale it back a little bit 48:14 and it'll give it a little
bit more space to make sure that it's not being cut off. You will know right away if it's too big, 48:19 if it's something like this, you're going to see all of those letters are
cut off. That is not good for printing. So bring that back, 48:24 make sure that it fits just right in here. Nothing is cut off. And if you do need to move it around, you can move
this to kind of center it. 48:30 If you wanna snap it to the top and the center, just click on these two little snap-to-grid icons. Okay, so this section is entirely done. 48:36
Now we're ready to scroll down here and move on to the next section. As a side note here, we only have this section and one more section and then we're ready 48:42 to publish this
live onto the marketplace. But what this section is right here is actually really important. It is what colors of shirts is this design 48:49 going to be available on? So as you
kind of saw before, if I hover over the white, the white text at the top, walking, is going to disappear. 48:55 You're not able to see it, so I'm going to turn white off. That way
it's not going to be offered on our listing because I already know it's not going to print properly. 49:02 As you keep scrolling through here, hover over each of these and just
look at your design to make sure that everything looks good. 49:07 If you see one that looks like it's not going to be good, all you have to do is click it and uncheck it. Like
this one might be a little bit too close. 49:13 I'm going to turn that one off. And that's all we're doing in this step. Now to show you kind of some shortcuts here, you can click
on All, 49:19 it'll select all of these turned on. Just Light and it'll be just the light shirts turned on. It'll turn off the dark ones. 49:24 Or just Dark or None, and you can
handpick 'em one by one. If you have just a design that is just white text, 49:29 clicking the dark is going to save you a lot of time. And then just double check by hovering over
these. But this part is generally up to you. 49:35 If you like just going one by one, that is a way to ensure that all of these look good. And let me just finish this up and we'll
move on to the next section. 49:41 Okay, so all of those colors look good with this specific design. Now we can move on to the last section here before we publish this. 49:46 So
this is a really interesting section, something that's taken me years to kind of figure out what's most efficient here. Since this is print on demand, again, 49:52 there's no
inventory, so you can have your designs printed on anything, like, for instance, this is a phone case you can have that same design put on. 49:59 Coffee mugs, you can have that
design put on. And kind of a golden nugget that I can drop here for you guys is that the vast majority 50:04 of your sales overall are going to come from T-shirts specifically. All
of these extra items, they don't get purchased nearly as much as just T-shirts. 50:12 However, for many designs that you are creating, when you click on these, the formatting is
going to be really finicky. 50:17 So if you zoom in here, you're going to see that that C is just about cut off and it's really close at the top as well. 50:23 So you have to spend
time going through here and making sure each one of these is formatted just right so that it's not going to get cut off. 50:28 And some of the issues that I've run into is you put
this on a cup somewhere, you think it's going to look good like this, 50:34 maybe you put it to the top, and someone receives that item and they wish that it was really big and it
was snapped to the center or a different placement. 50:40 So even though all of these additional items are free to add to your listing, one, they're not going to represent many
sales at all. 50:46 Two, you're going to spend a lot of time making sure that all of these are in the right placements. And three, this is where you're going 50:51 to run into the
most preference issues from your customers where they wanted it printed somewhere else on that item. 50:57 Now I will say here, if you are using passive print on demand, all of the
customer service's taken care of for you, so returns, 51:02 exchanges, you don't even get notified as a seller. However, if someone does make a return, you get the profit pulled
back out of your account, 51:09 you don't ever get a bill. But when you start making future profit, you have kind of a debit against that which was the profit from that returned
item. 51:15 So what I'm going to do here is just turn all these additional items off. That way, I don't have to spend a single second worrying 51:21 about editing these, and I know
that the vast majority of my sales are going to come from the T-shirts anyways. So that's kind of my shortcut 51:26 or my hack on how to handle all these extra items. And then just
come down here and say I have read and agree to the terms and click on PUBLISH. 51:32 Guys, if you have made it this far in this tutorial, you are officially a print on demand
seller. You have a listing that is live 51:38 and someone can come in here, they can add this to their cart and purchase it right now. A couple important things to highlight here
51:43 is that as we were talking about, they autoadded T-shirt to the end because we are looking at a T-shirt right now. If we were to switch this to a hoodie or a tank top, 51:50
that would switch from T-shirt to hoodie or to tank top. The other thing is that this is where our storefront name is, it is clickable. 51:56 So if someone clicks on that, it'll go
to all of our designs. Again, this doesn't really come into play all that much. The third thing, this is probably the most important thing 52:02 to talk about, is that on
TeePublic, they set the pricing for you. This is because they are running sales, they are trying to get people to purchase your designs. 52:09 It is kind of twofold here. So
TeePublic, you will make probably the smallest margin per sale. You'll probably make one to $5 per sale 52:15 because they're always cutting down your price to try to get a higher
volume of sales. However, you don't have to worry about this 52:21 because they are handling all of the sales, they're handling all of the coupons, they're doing everything for
you, trying to get a higher volume of sales for you. 52:27 So as you can see, save 30% for the next two days, 23 hours, 58 minutes. So after that time, this will go back up to $23.
52:34 But I did wanna just make that point to say that all the pricing is handled for you on TeePublic. When you go to these other websites, 52:39 you get to set exactly what you
wanna set your pricing at, so then you know how big your profit margin is going to be. 52:45 Just to give you an idea here, when you're selling on these other print on demand
platforms, I would aim for somewhere around 18.99 52:50 or 19.99 for your T-shirts. This will give you a $4.89 profit on every single sale that you make. 52:56 Now kind of another
golden nugget to drop here for you is when you are just creating your designs or a brand new listing, I would lower that price to something like 15.99. 53:03 This is going to give
you a smaller profit margin. You're still going to make about $2 per sale. However, this allows you to get some more sales, 53:09 so you're going to get more sales earlier on. As
that design starts to get sales, you can bring this up to 16.99, 17.99, 53:15 all the way up to 19.99, and then you kind of earn your placement on these platforms. You're getting
about $5 per sale. 53:20 And that is a really good pricing strategy. Now another thing that I'll say is if you are creating trending or seasonal designs, 53:26 once that trend is
really hitting, if you've grabbed your position in that search ranking and you are starting to get consistent sales or when that season is happening 53:33 and your sales start to
go back up, if your design is getting consistent sales, slowly creep that price up. 53:38 The highest that I've seen that you can go to is about 23.99 when everything is peaking.
That gives you about $7.85 profit. 53:45 And then once that season starts to pass again, bring that price back down to 19.99 and try to get sales throughout the rest of the year.
53:51 Now, before we move on from here, I do wanna show you a couple more important things. So in regards to getting paid, go to Account, 53:56 and then go to Account Settings down
here, and then over on the left side, go to My Sales. This is where you're able to enter your PayPal email 54:03 or your Payoneer email. All you have to do is enter it here and
click Save and you'll get paid out automatically on the 15th of every month. 54:09 Now the only one that's going to be different here is Amazon Merch on Demand. Since they're kind
of the biggest platform out there, they have their own way of doing things, 54:15 so they do it through direct deposit, so they'll pay you straight into your bank account. Again,
you don't need to have a business bank account set up, Important FAQ's 54:21 you can just use your individual personal bank account. Okay, so with that being said, the couple other
important things to know as you are just getting into print on demand. 54:28 The first thing I would say is knowing how many designs you should be creating. As a rule of thumb,
when you are just getting 54:33 into print on demand, I would aim to create at least 50 or even 100 different T-shirt designs and get them uploaded to these big print on demand
websites. 54:40 If, for instance, you create 100 different designs and you upload them to these four print on demand websites, you now have 400 listings out there. 54:47 All of
these websites are getting traffic organically. You having 400 different lines in the water, you are going to catch fish. 54:52 A lot of people come into this business and one of
the biggest mistakes they make is they only create five or 10 different designs. 54:57 They wait a month, they haven't gotten any sales, and they think that the business model
doesn't work. So when you hear people saying that print on demand is oversaturated, 55:04 it's because they went into a big overall niche. They created a couple designs, uploaded
them to one print on demand website 55:10 and it didn't get any sales. Secondly, how many niches should you go into and can you upload them all into your same account? 55:15 I
would recommend going into as many different niches as you can. There is no limit here. Kind of the more the merrier. 55:20 It's just going to diversify your account. So no matter
which niche is getting more traffic at the time, you'll be getting sales in that niche. 55:26 The key here is to find these subniches within those niches. Those are the designs
that you want to be creating. And just know that you can upload them all, 55:33 even if they're all in different niches to your same print on demand account on these websites. What
I had been alluding to earlier in this video 55:39 is that in the past, it used to work on a niche storefront basis. Then you drive traffic to that niche storefront. 55:44
Nowadays, what these marketplaces have moved to is putting each design individually on the marketplace 55:50 where it is best fit. So if you create something about ambulatory
nurses, they're going to put that in their marketplace 55:55 whenever someone searches for ambulatory nurses. This is where all the traffic is going to come from now. It's not
going to come from those storefronts anymore. 56:02 And then the last thing that's pretty important to know is when you are just getting started in print on demand, how quickly
should you be uploading your designs? 56:08 Should you start with just 50 designs on the first day or should you start slower? The answer that I have for you here 56:13 is going to
be really helpful, and I hope you pay attention to this one. When you are starting a brand new print on demand account, always start by uploading slowly. 56:20 What these big,
passive, print on demand websites have run into in the last couple of years is people creating bots to try to upload a ton of designs 56:27 on a bunch of different accounts all at
once. So what I recommend doing when you are just starting out with a brand new account on these websites 56:33 is upload just one design per day, then work into two designs per
day, and then three designs per day, and slowly work your way up. How To Do Free Marketing To Get More Sales 56:40 What you are trying to do is prove to them that you are a real
person and you are not trying to beat their system. Now this is actually a great time to talk about 56:46 kind of the tier systems that are on these print on demand platforms. So
if you haven't heard of it before, all of these big passive print on demand websites 56:51 have some kind of tier system in place. What that means is, as a new seller, they wanna
make sure that you're not uploading 56:58 1,000 designs on the first day. This is their way of finding out who is real and who is a bot. It's kind of an initial filter that does
57:04 a lot of the heavy lifting for them. So with that being said, there's kind of two things you can do here. One is you can just let everything be and it'll automatically work
you out of the tiers 57:11 and get you into the full-fledged marketing and all of that. The way that you do that is just make sure that you're uploading slowly in the beginning.
57:16 You're following all the trademark rules and you're uploading good designs. If you just do that, these websites will automatically switch you over to their full tier 57:22
and give you all of the full marketing. You don't have to do anything. It all happens automatically. Now, the other way to get out of these 57:28 initial tiers really quickly, for
those of you who just want to kind of hit the gas pedal and get right into this business is by bringing your own buyers. 57:34 So I will show you a couple ways right now to do free
marketing where you can bring people to your own listings and make purchases. 57:39 These are ways that work really well right now. Okay, so let me bring you over to the computer
here. We are going to start on TikTok. 57:44 This is the first platform that I recommend using. And no, you don't have to be on camera to do this. What I recommend doing is going
over to TikTok 57:50 and typing in T-shirt. As you can see, these don't even have people in them. They're just kind of a forward-facing shot 57:56 of different T-shirts. Some of
these will have people in them, but you definitely don't have to be in them for this to work. And what I recommend doing 58:02 is going through your initial listings and picking
out the ones that you think are going to sell the absolute best and actually ordering some samples. 58:09 Now, I would recommend just ordering a couple of these, just two or three
shirts. If you have the budget for it, I would stretch it to five 58:14 of your own shirts. And just know that when you are ordering them from your own print on demand listing, the
profit on that sale will go back to you anyways. 58:21 So you are essentially getting these shirts at cost. And one, you're going to have some shirts that you can wear, which is
pretty awesome. But two, you are going to be able to make 58:27 these kinds of videos. And you can post that on these platforms like TikTok and then you can link directly to that
listing. 58:33 This works even better if you create some designs on your account that are about a season that is happening right now or about trends that are happening right now.
58:39 Then you create these kind of videos. You post them on TikTok or one other website that I'm about to show you, and you link directly to that listing. 58:46 Once you've got a
couple people to buy that item on one of the print on demand marketplaces, swap out the link in that video 58:51 to one of the other marketplaces. Since you've uploaded that same
design to multiple different print on demand platforms, you now are sending them to the next one, 58:58 and you can get a couple sales on that platform. This, again, is just
something that you can optionally do in the beginning to try to get a jumpstart on sales on those platforms 59:04 and then those print on demand websites know that you are legit
and they're going to give you the full marketing exposure. Now I will say for those of you who TikTok 59:10 is really not for you, there is another website you can use for this.
This is Pinterest. I would, again, just type in T-shirt up here, 59:15 and you're going to see both photos and videos of T-shirts. So these are a lot easier to do. There's kind of
flat lay photos so you can fold it, 59:21 take a photo with a nice background. Again, both trends and seasonal designs are going to work the best for this to get that quick jump in
sales. 59:27 Now, I know at first glance, this might seem a little overwhelming to do marketing like this, but one, just know that you only have to do this in the beginning. 59:33
If you do wanna keep it up, you can definitely generate a lot of sales by doing it. But two, if you have the budget to get these samples of shirts, 59:39 take them out of your
house, go take them to popular places that a lot of other people go to. Just use your iPhone 59:44 or use your smartphone to take these photos. The cameras are so good nowadays.
Now, I do understand, for a lot of you guys, 59:49 you may not have the budget to buy samples of your shirts, so I will show you another way that you can do this. If we come all
the way back to Placeit here, 59:56 and we go back up and we go to Mockups, if you can remember, this is included in your subscription. So once you create those designs on Placeit,
1:00:03 you can then have those essentially photoshopped into all of these models. These, you can then use to post on Pinterest or post on TikTok and do the same strategy. 1:00:10
I will say the one thing that I really like about their mockups, if you go to Mockups and go to Video Mockups, this is going to sort all 1:00:15 of their video Mockups in one
place. But all of these are things that you can post on Pinterest, you can post on TikTok 1:00:21 that are a lot more engaging than just a photo. So guys, I really hope that this
video has been helpful. As a reminder, everything that we talked about, 1:00:26 all the tools and discount codes will be down in the description below. Again, since this was free,
if you did enjoy it, 1:00:31 please just give it a thumbs up and let me know down in the comments. I'm here checking the comments all the time, so if you have any questions, just
let me know down there. 1:00:37 All right, guys, that is it for this one. I really hope that you enjoyed it, and I'll plan on seeing you in the next video. All From Greg
GottfriedFull Print On-Demand Tutorial For Beginners 0:00 - I want you to imagine for a moment you are driving a brand-new supercar through the sunny Streets of Dubai. 0:05 While
passive income continuously flows into your bank account, many young YouTubers promise 0:11 that this dream is possible with the print on demand side hustle. Look, I won't make
claims like this. 0:16 I've been around a lot longer and from my experience, if you need grand promises just 0:21 to listen, then you won't succeed anyway. However, I will promise
to give you a step-by-step guide 0:27 to start in Print on demand. I'm gonna show you exactly where to click and what to do to make this business work with $0. 0:36 You'll even
learn how to make products like this and sell them internationally. This is coming from someone 0:41 who hasn't just started a few little internet businesses and sold a few print
on demand items. 0:46 I'm an established millionaire businessman that's been running companies for over 35 years, 0:52 so I'll be sharing some of the lessons that you can only
learn from having years of experience. 0:57 I know starting a new side hustle seems daunting. There's so much to learn. That's why this is the only print on demand 1:04 for
beginner's video you need to watch before you take action, right? So I'm gonna split this into 10 different sections 1:10 to make sure to cover absolutely everything. Firstly, what
is Print on Demand? What is Print On Demand? 1:16 But simply it's a risk-free way of starting out in business. Let's say you wanted to start a clothing brand, 1:22 but don't have a
factory to make thousands of unique clothing products, nor do you want to end up with a basement full 1:27 of unsold shirts like a hoarder. That's where print on demand swoops in
to save the day. 1:33 Print on demand allows you to pay for your products only after your customers order them. These products are then printed with your unique designs 1:40 and
delivered directly to your customers. This allows you to run everything with very little money. 1:45 This isn't just limited clothing. You can also do mugs, posters, bags, and even
cushions. 1:52 This side hustle is ideal for someone who doesn't want the hassle of starting a full-time business, but wants to wear in passive income. 1:58 You can work from your
laptop and as your income scales, the time you put into the business shouldn't need to change significantly. 2:04 Isn't it wild how these days you can potentially raking millions
without even physically touching a single product? 2:11 This concept would've blown my mind in my day. The data backs this up. As currently the global print on demand market is
worth 2:18 nearly $6 billion and that's expected to rise to 40 billion by 2031. 2:25 From my time in the business world, I've seen firsthand how crucial is to operate in the right
market. 2:30 Believe me, I've seen some seriously smart people hit rock bottom because they were busy building their brand in a 2:37 market that was on the decline. But here's
where print on demand is different. Even if you're just an average Joe in the entrepreneurial 2:44 world, you could potentially raking a fortune if you dive into a booming market
like this one. 2:49 To get started, you need five things. One, a winning product. Two, a great design to go on the product. 2:57 Three, a place to sell product for a great
supplier, 3:02 and five of course paying customers. But don't worry, we're gonna cover all of this today. 3:08 By the way, if you're new here, then I Mark and I make video sharing
my years of wisdom so 3:13 that you can grow your wealth. So if that interests you, make sure to subscribe to get more videos like this one. 3:18 So how do I find a winning
product? This is the first question most people ask when they're getting into print on demand and rightly so. How do you find a winning product? 3:26 'cause if you get this wrong,
then it could make the difference between your store getting hundreds of sales and none whatsoever. 3:32 From my experience, a winning product has two main components, the product
category, and the design. 3:38 Now, you might think all of these product categories are created equal, but far from it. You need to be very strategic about which one you decide
3:46 to use for your blank canvas. You may be thinking, why not just pick all of them and use the same design across every product? 3:52 Now, although this may sound like a good
idea, it really isn't at first, your designs probably aren't gonna be that great. 3:59 This means you're gonna waste a ton of time and money focusing on different products and not
getting any sales. 4:04 Instead, I want you to pick one product category and give it your entire focus. Once you hit over 10 K per month with that product type, 4:12 then you can
repurpose the same designs on other products in a new shop. It's much better to become a master 4:18 of one product than a jack of all trades. This even applies to color options.
Personally, I'd never offer more than seven different 4:26 variations as that tends to overwhelm the customer, and you know what? They end up buying nothing. 4:32 So you have a big
decision to make. So let me help you eliminate some of the categories. Cards and calendars are a big no for me, 4:39 as they're extremely seasonal. You want a product that's
evergreen and sells continuously no matter what. 4:45 The time of year mugs, iPhone cases, oh, and stationary, they don't really sell for very much. 4:51 So personally I'd stay
away from these. My role is to have at least 20 to 30% profit margin. 4:57 I'm not saying these are a definite no because if you're able to sell them in large enough quantities,
5:02 then you can make a nice profit. Take this shop for example. They have the number one listing on Etsy. 5:07 When I search for a mug, now if I dig into their figures, I can
actually see that they're generating 5:13 around $30,000 a month from this store. If we assume a 15% margin, then they're probably making 5:21 around 4,500 pound a month in profit,
which isn't too bad at all. 5:27 If they've managed to get a 30% profit margin, then that's even better. If we're evaluating options based purely on potential profit 5:35 margins,
then clothing and wall art are the clear winners. In my opinion. It's much easier to inflate the value 5:42 of products like this. It's the same strategy that designer brands and
modern artists have been using for years. 5:47 I can actually show you some real numbers here. Now, I've sold some wall art before using gelato. 5:53 Honestly, I really like gelato
because they have production - Facilities over 32 countries on this point. 5:59 Over 90% of orders are produced in the same country The customer lives in cutting down shipping
