kind of what we we're going to be doing here and I'm going to show you um make video ads 15:27 with Arc ads . a I think AR ads. a is the website I'll show you guys right here so AR
ads. a I'll load it up right 15:34 here I'll show you guys it is essentially a platform you can use and 15:40 it costs $10 per video okay you can generate a script you give Arc ads
the 15:45 script you can pick through a big list of just voice actors and this script will lip sync to this actor in real time 15:52 and it will send you back the creative the
video ad that you can use with that exact script in literally like 20 to 30 15:59 minutes and it's $10 per video you don't need to get in front of camera if you are worried about
yourself being super 16:05 good on camera all this stuff it completely removes any of that okay you have no excuses here right because I was 16:11 always afraid of myself getting
on camera when I when I was starting to make ads and uh this this throws that out the window and you being an AI 16:17 business you want to be always kind of on the Forefront of AI
so this just is obviously like I said you're practicing 16:23 what you're preaching to your potential clients and your obviously future clients so here's what it looks like once
you sign up and you get in the 16:30 software I'm not affiliated with them at all so I'm not saying this here to you know make a quick affiliate off you no 16:37 literally none of
that I'm just showing you this cuz this platform has worked really really well for me really really well for the people I also help inside 16:43 of my Mastermind and all that stuff
which I'll kind of go into here in a minute but essentially you just type in 16:49 your entire script here you can choose right here once you've typed all that in the big list of
actors you can kind of 16:55 Select from and I can play like a hey you welcome to Arch I'm one of the hey you welcome toads I'm 17:02 one of the hey you welcome toads hey you
welcome to arcad okay you guys get the point that's all AI That's not a like I 17:08 mean it is a human but but it it's like it's all AI right and that's the cool part about this
so I'll show you guys 17:15 real quick right here this is a script I used and I gave to someone who I was helping make this and you can read I 17:22 mean I can kind of I'll play
the the clip actually of the guy speaking but um 17:27 this is the script here on the left right here you can completely see so if you're trying to copy me you can copy me 17:32 I
don't care this is for a real estate and script so like I said if you're working with roofers whatever um I think 17:38 we the guy helped and I sent this ad to and I helped him
make this I think he spent about four grand on ads and he 17:44 made about 22k back so this ad has been proven uh to make money in this script 17:49 specifically so if you want to
rip it you can depending on whatever industry you're in um but I'll play it real quick 17:54 you guys can hear it are you a real estate agent who is still struggling to get more
list listings in 2025 in the 18:00 next 60 seconds I'm going to show you my team and I are helping over 100 agents 18:06 like yourself make more money for Less work and less time
needed than ever before using AI in 2025 no need to use 18:14 Zillow referrals or cold call ever again okay guys that's all Ai and me telling 18:20 you it's AI me being younger if
you're younger watching this too you might be like well the Carson that's obviously AI 18:25 you know this is very very clearly an AI ad that's generated not to a 40-year-old 18:31
not to a 50-year-old not to a 60-year-old it's crazy to think so I'll give I'll give you context so the person 18:36 I gave this ad to where he ran it he made about 22 Grand with
it he just threw closing real estate agent clients 18:42 on his AI offer who's also in my Mastermind he literally told me he said 18:48 Carson all these realtors that opted in none
of them knew this ad was AI I actually showed them on the call and 18:54 then they realized they were like oh yeah it was that's how powerful this stuff is and this dude's in some
crazy 18:59 camera setup studio all this stuff he's looking all professional he's got he's probably got like makeup on and stuff on 19:05 here you know like you don't need to do
any of that you don't need to prep at all you could be sitting in your bed with uh I don't know a coffee or 19:11 something in the left with you know I don't know maybe just your
underwear on or something and you could be just pumping out all these ads that look all 19:17 professional that make you so much money and that's what's so cool about this so 19:22
that's that that's how we're going to generate these ads again it's $10 per ad you can do that and I'm not going to go 19:28 crazy in depth into this video on actually how to set
up Facebook ads is I'm going to leave that to a big long hour like 5 Hour course I made on this 19:34 YouTube channel literally A to Z on how to start an AI agency so I'm just
going to leave it there um but that's how we 19:40 make ads so we're going to make ads with uh Arc ads and that's all going to be video ads generated with AI and you can 19:46 use
chat gbt to help you with this prompt in this script but or if you just want to kind of take inspiration for what I given you guys right here you can 19:52 do that too um but what
I'll do here is I'll also just kind of show you guys 19:57 like this and we're going to go into the next step is once people opt in from this ad so everyone sees ads out there
20:03 there's that little button that says learn more opt in um what happens when they click on that they're going to get 20:09 sent right to a funnel sent right to booking funnel
okay I'm going to show you guys 20:16 exactly what I mean by that now and when it comes like I said when it comes to the setup of the actual ads in the 20:21 Facebook ads manager
I'm leaving that down below I'm not going to get that here because I want to make this video value condensed short and if I do that 20:28 it's just going to uh go off the rails a
little bit on kind of tutorial mode but 20:34 I use a CRM it's called go high level I'm not sure if you guys have heard of it or not but it's probably one of the 20:39 best crms
out there for the money you pay it has everything you need calendars bookings automations Etc I talk about it 20:45 way more in that course below but we need to set up a funnel so
this is somewhere where we can send people to 20:52 once they've opted in on that ad and they've clicked that learn more button so let's say we're spending less than $50 a day on
ads I've kind of sectioned 20:58 this off a lot of this stuff guys by the way a lot of the things I'm going to show you here are given also to my 21:04 Mastermind members which
I'll leave a link to that down below where it's just a private Mastermind where I help a bunch of other people do what I'm 21:10 talking about in here so um they kind of just get
more one-on-one support they get my phone number they a bunch of 21:15 stuff right so I'll leave that down below as that's not what this video is for but that's what I'm going to
be referring to as I show you guys this so 21:22 we'll view a page literally as simple as this you can see right here Niche okay this is like a templated right here so 21:29 let's
say you're working with Realtors Realtors dot dot dot dot dot Implement AI into your business to scale to five 21:35 deals per month within 90 days yeah that's a little bit of a
bold guarantee 21:40 but you know you'd make this depending on whatever your industry is ETC and then you'd have your booking calendar so go high level just you're able to make
21:46 that within here and you just have your calendar here and everyone can just book in right so they immediately after they 21:51 see this ad they immediately are shot to this
page where they can book in and then we also have some other settings 21:57 where like you saw there was like a popup I don't know if I can show it but if ever think of going off
the page boom 22:02 this shows up and then the calendar okay so it's all went within high level again this is kind of what I give out to a lot of The Mastermind members that are in
22:08 there but um that's that whole point I'm trying to show you guys is that's how the funnel works okay this is the gap 22:15 that you're so everything I kind of showed you guys
right there and I'll just preface this the end where the 22:20 final point is to book a call with you okay that's what we're doing here that's 22:25 the whole point here is we just
need to get them on the call with you so you can present your service and I'm going to talk about right now actually how you 22:31 can pitch this stuff so right here this exact
same process I showed you guys 22:36 that you need to be helping for your clients is the exact same process if you didn't notice that you're doing for yourself you need to run ads
for 22:42 yourself get leads AKA more real estate agents or more roofers opting into your funnel then jumping on sales 22:48 appointments with you that then turn to paying
customers where you deliver a service and you make money that's the 22:53 whole process there's no crazy signs there's no crazy things behind you like that that's the whole process
right 22:59 there I just gave it to you guys um so that's that now when it comes to jumping on a I guess when it comes to jumping on 23:05 a call and you actually are on the sales
call like I kind of touched on it but like you want to really be building a 23:11 lot of your argument on what you're talking about here not only with maybe some examples of how
sinf flow Works which like I said I have other videos on 23:18 my channel for that which sylow being the AI caller and what it sounds like but being genuine I think a lot of 23:23
people have this notion where they think they can be the super big sales shark in closed deals of course you can right 23:29 people will fall for that and people will you know kind
of get just I guess destroyed Under Pressure but if you want 23:34 to actually come across with very little like the amount of people that come across as super salesy and sales
shark 23:39 and they close people that 30 minutes later that person just disputes or that person gets cold feet and they want to get a refund it's so high because 23:46 they're not
actually bought into the person that's selling the service they're just bought into a bunch of words and pressure you want to buy these 23:53 people in on hey we're really going to
make a transformation in your business by not only building you a system that 23:59 you get Beyond working with us or not right but we can also for a very cheap 24:04 cost run your
ads for you and get you these two main things that you need to get more clients right because you can 24:10 do math for them you're spending x amount of dollars right now on your
front desk which this AI caller can replace or you're spending x amount of 24:16 dollars per month on ads which we do for 500 a month do many companies do it for 500 a month no
right at least with 24:22 quality a lot of people can do it ads out there for free anyone can but you know what the quality is the quality is so no one wants that you know 24:30
that's it's just cheap right but you since you're building both of these solutions for them you can really just 24:36 do both that's the key Point here so jumping on the sales call
with them coming across genuine actually having a 24:42 goal to help them and showing them data right there is so much data out here I don't even need to go into right now 24:47
where AI is the complete biggest indicator of success in most businesses hey you're a 40 50y Old you know AI is 24:54 huge you've seen the stock market of Nvidia keep going up all
these big AI completely going up to the moon and you 25:00 hear these stories about everyone's going to go out of jobs if they don't have ai implemented in their business and they
don't use AI well here's your 25:06 solution right you can just ride that Trend and a lot of people it's already been bought into them and you just need to clarify that and that's
what I've 25:13 seen so that's that that's the sales call that's really the best advice I can give and now when it comes to the 25:20 Fulfillment Carson how do I fulfill for these
clients right you've told me I can build a chap off for them or a AI color 25:25 for them and I can do ads for them how do I actually do it so there's three ways you can do each or
I guess there's 25:31 I'll start with ads So Paid ads 25:37 delivery okay there's three ways you can do this one is I'm going to start with you can learn it yourself okay learn it
25:44 yourself number two is you can hire a white label agency I'm 25:51 going to get into in a second with that means Higher White Agency or three you can hire 25:59 someone
full-time or part-time hire someone full I'll say slash part time uh 26:08 on your team who obviously knows how to run ads so these are kind of the three ways you can do this right
so the best way the 26:16 most ultimate best way out there is learn it yourself okay the same way you're probably going to be running ads for yourself for your own business and
26:23 you know doing what I just told you right here in this process it's obviously important because 26:28 it's hard to hire someone or like a white label agency might be
different but it's it's h it's hard to hire 26:33 someone when you don't know actually how to do the service and what's good or not it's like me going into a pizza shop and 26:40
trying to hire the right guy to flip pizzas and make pizza but I've maybe never tested tasted Pizza in my life or 26:47 I don't know how a good person makes pizza you guys get the
point okay this is probably like a very very bad analogy 26:52 but you you guys get the point right and I've I have had pizza in my life so I wouldn't know what good pizza tastes
26:57 like but the point is is if you if you don't know what's good it's hard to find good and know and actually spot good 27:04 talent if you've never done it yourself because you
can call out BS this person who sits here and says oh yeah I can run ads for you I can get you x amount of 27:10 dollar lead costs and then you have them maybe on call on the
interview hey show me show me an example of your ads show 27:16 me an example of this offer on the spot make me an ad for it and then you'll find out pretty quick if they're bsing
or not if you know how to do it that's 27:23 the key Point learning yourself is number one but you might sit here and might be like Carson I don't have time 27:28 to learn it
myself I just made $5,000 up front off a deal like this uh I want to Outsource myself you can use a white 27:34 label agency all right so um I think it's called stealth management
if you look up stealth ads management they're 27:40 an agency out there not affiliated with them either but uh you can look up them I think they're about $600 per like 27:48 client
which is crazy cheap so you can hire an agency completely white label that'll just do it for you um and of 27:55 course last thing you can just hire someone full-time but I
wouldn't recommend this unless you've at least 28:00 learned it yourself okay so that's the paid ad side now when it comes to the actual AI fulfillment which is probably 28:07 what
a lot of you guys are actually wondering here let's say we'll say ai ai CER fulfillment AI color delivery 28:15 so I would say there's probably two ways this goes which one again
the first one is learn it yourself I have a bunch of 28:22 different tutorials on my Channel about this stuff you guys can look at those if you want help or inspiration um but you
28:29 can learn it yourself obviously you have very very high margins when you learn things yourself and you know you can 28:35 obviously communicate with's going on better right
because if you're Outsourcing a lot of your paid ads delivery and also Outsourcing your AI 28:40 callor delivery when a client asks you hey what's going on and you don't have a
pulse on this because you have five other clients all outsourced you got to 28:48 you got to you know figure out what's going on a little bit more um so that's that that's number
one and then number 28:53 two is you hire a tech guy SL like we'll say 29:00 automation guys so what I've seen guys really best now I'm going to talk about real quick how to hire
for both of these 29:06 I've seen these two platforms do the best one is upwork and then second is indeed okay 29:14 these two platforms are the best I think there's another one
called freelancer.com something like that but 29:20 these two platforms are the best I think when it comes to Outsourcing for really really good talent especially when it comes to
ads work and Tech work so 29:27 you're going to hire a tech automation guy so what I've seen a lot of automation guys guys who just understand zapier make.com go high level they
can 29:35 make great Bots you know by you just tell them hey do a little bit of research on this and then they can make a really really good one because they 29:41 know how to use
all the automations and the software and stuff that they will need to use in the first place so really 29:47 really important there so you can hire again like I said we'll just say
on upwork and indeed you can make a job 29:53 post you'll probably get people immediately um for this position right here I wouldn't hire probably parttime 29:58 you could hire
someone for $500 to $1,000 a month that is talented overseas and can do all the job you need hiring 30:05 someone part-time SL fulltime is obviously super cool because if you have
20 clients you could literally have them 30:10 all managed by one person that you just pay a full-time salary and the more clients you get doesn't increase that 30:16 fixed cost
that you're paying this full-time person to fulfill on the ads and this is kind of the same thing with 30:22 this so Tech Guys you can find people in kind of more we'll say uh poor
European 30:28 countries specifically like there kind of like I don't know I think Romania and 30:34 not necessarily poor but like Romania has a lot of talent um I don't know I
think Bosnia Serbia like all these 30:40 countries they have a lot of great automation like Talent like guys who understand Tech and you can hire someone 30:47 for 500 bucks a
month who will do this for you they'll be maybe part-time but they're working four five hours a day if 30:52 they have four or five hours a day to completely dedicate to this
business and everything you need them to do which is super handy because you can have them 30:58 solve a lot of other issues besides just the AI caller delivery fulfillment you
have for clients they can do your 31:04 automation questions you have and etc etc so that's where you can kind of get leveraged but in these two things right 31:11 here guys paid
ads doesn't take more than like maybe an hour to set up and then 30 minutes a week to manage AI 31:18 caller you build it once you're done right maybe takes hour or two to set up
like this stuff does not take long and 31:23 look at the money you're doing or you're collecting up front you have occurring on the back end you make this up front 31:29 and this
is 5,000 we're not even talking about 10,000 you close let's say 10 of these deals a month totally possible 31:36 like that's that's 50 Grand a month your expenses are super super
low even if you're Outsourcing yourself for 31:41 completely everything they're still pretty low you know there's just maybe training hours you'll need to do etc etc 31:47 and then
you have all this on the back end for recurring so I would either the way I like to pitch this is like hey guys it's $5,000 up front um will 31:54 include the first month of kind
of ads management completely for free inside of that first month alongside the AI 32:01 buildout starting the second month we'll do 500 a month for all the ads management and we'll
make sure it's also 32:07 kind of all linked together make sure all the AI working properly and we'll just do it for 500 a month for management and that is super appealing 32:14
right and then I like to sign them on three-month agreements so you'll lock in $1,000 total I guess from ads management 32:19 5,000 from this Ai buildout and then they can
obviously continue beyond that if it all makes sense and you've done 32:24 your job well so guys that's really how you do all this this is how I've been able to make a lot of money
with AI and 32:30 this is what I help a lot of other people do as well as this is the whole process is super super simple and it 32:35 works in regardless the industry you know
like these are the main ones I've shown here but again you can make this 32:42 based on your own personal life experience and you can do this for yourself and you can make a lot of
money and change your life just as I have 32:48 right just as many other people I have seen done the same thing so guys that being said if you want my help and you 32:54 want me
what I've explained here you have more questions you don't understand understand exactly how to do this or you want to do this for yourself and you 33:00 want to set this up ASAP
um I'll put a link at the top of the description for my Mastermind community that I was kind 33:06 of touching on earlier which is you essentially get almost my phone number pretty
much and you can just ask me 33:11 questions whatever you want I'll help you more oneon-one build this stuff out and actually start closing clients as 33:16 obviously getting money
up front is super super important and uh you'll be able to just book a free game plan call in down below to see if it makes sense 33:23 for you or not and um yeah guys bunch of
stuff in there go high Lev snapshots course material everything you need to 33:28 really start and scale this business I have and there's no one else really out there offering kind
of this AI agency 33:34 help because this stuff is going to get big but I'm telling you right now this is the complete surface like I was just 33:40 talking about AI callers they
might sound good now they might send out average now just wait another year it's 33:46 going to completely take the market by storm and if you're ahead and you're offering these
Solutions a year before 33:51 it gets crazy big and everyone's using it guess who's a millionaire guess who's making 50 Grand a month 25 Grand a month 33:58 you because you were
early to the trend that's why I'm so bullish on this stuff and I have been and that's how I've been able to make so much money right that's 34:04 realistically what it comes down
to AI is not going anywhere so again I hope this video helped you I hope it provide 34:09 value and if you want to speak more with me click that link at the top of the description
and uh if you want free stuff for me I also have a 5our course 34:15 I'll link in there too just to help you out if you maybe don't uh have any other kind of upfront Capital to
start this 34:20 type of stuff as you don't have to but it definitely definitely helps so guys that being said and I'll see you guys in the next video All From Carson Reed
AIIntroduction 0:00 Hey, everyone. Welcome back to another video. In today's video, I'm going to be giving you a complete print on demand masterclass. 0:06 This video is going to
take you through everything that I currently do for my print on demand process, all the way from the idea that you want 0:11 to start print on demand today to getting your very
first sale. And everything in between, we're going to cover step by step. 0:17 Now, what's going to make this video so helpful is I'm going to explain everything on camera here,
but I'm also going to switch you over 0:23 to screen recording on my computer so you can follow along step by step on your own computer. Now, before we do switch over to the
computer, 0:29 I do wanna just say that this is going to be a longer video. There is an absolute ton of information that I'm going to cram into this one. 0:35 It will have all of
the tips, all of the tricks, all of the tools, the artificial intelligence, marketing strategies, pricing strategies, 0:41 everything you need to start a successful print on demand
business is all going to be included in this one video. 0:47 Now with that being said, this probably could be sold as a $500 print on demand course, but I'm giving it to you guys
totally for free, 0:53 so all I ask is if you do find yourself enjoying this video, please just give it a thumbs up and let me know down in the comments. 0:58 Alright guys, without
further ado, let's get straight into this masterclass. Okay, so the very first thing for us to cover here is what specifically is print on demand? What Is Print On-Demand? 1:06
Well, when it comes to a print on demand business model, essentially what that means is you or me as a print on demand seller, 1:12 we create a design that we think would sell well
on a T-shirt. And what we do with that design is we upload it to a couple 1:17 of the big print on demand websites. Now those websites create kind of a virtual listing of what that
design would look like 1:23 if it were printed on a T-shirt. And then as people come to those websites and they're searching through all the T-shirts looking 1:28 for one that they
want to buy, if they find ours and they like it, they can actually purchase it directly from the print on demand website. 1:34 They will do all the printing. They will do all the
shipping, and they will handle the customer service for you. 1:40 Us, as the print on demand seller, we just get a split of the overall profit on that sale. So let me switch you
over to the computer 1:45 and show you a real example of this so it makes sense. Okay, so let's start on Amazon, which a lot of people don't realize is actually the largest print
on demand website out there. 1:53 When you type in something like fishing T-shirt, this is just to give you a good example, if you scroll down here, you can see 1:58 that these are
some T-shirts here, but if you keep scrolling down, you're going to see some of these listings have this very generic standard mockup. 2:05 So this one right here has it. This one
right here has it. These, from experience, I can tell are going 2:10 to be done with print on demand. Now this one next to it, you can see there's kind of a crinkle up here. So
that is someone else's listing. 2:15 That means they could be printing it and shipping it out themselves. Same with this one over here, but as you keep scrolling through here,
you're going to start to notice all 2:21 of these standard mockups, they all look the same. Those are all being done with print on demand. So just to give you an idea here, 2:27 if
we click on one of these, I'm just going to click on the first one. So once you do click onto one of these listings, the dead giveaway that it is in fact done 2:33 with print on
demand is on Amazon specifically it says, Amazon Merch on Demand. That is Amazon's department of print on demand. 2:39 So this just confirms to us that this is in fact being done
with print on demand and the person who created this listing only uploaded 2:45 this design right here, and Amazon's doing everything else. So if someone comes onto Amazon and
they're searching for a fishing T-shirt to buy, 2:51 they find this one, they can scroll down, they can say, "Okay, what kind of shirt do I want that printed on? Men's, Women's,
Youth. 2:57 What color do I want this in? So let's say I want it in asphalt gray. And then what size do I want that in? So let's get this in a large." 3:03 Then you have your price
right here. You can come over and you can add it to your cart. You can purchase it with Prime shipping just like anything else from Amazon. 3:09 Now what's happening behind the
scenes is Amazon receives this order, they get the funds from the customer, Amazon's T-shirt printing facility receives this order, 3:17 they print it out, they ship it to the
customer, and then Amazon takes care of any customer service issues if there are any. 3:22 And we just get our split of the profit on this sale. Now, one thing that's really
important for print on demand, 3:28 something that really sold me on the business model years ago is that when someone does make a purchase of this listing, 3:33 this listing still
stays live. It still stays fully stocked up because there is really no inventory printed yet. 3:39 So once you start to build up your print on demand business and you have a bunch
of these listings that are ranking well and they're getting a lot of sales, 3:44 it becomes a very passive business because once someone makes a purchase, you don't have to lift a
finger, the listing still stays live. 3:50 Amazon or the other print on demand websites, they take care of everything for you and that one T-shirt on its own 3:55 or however many
good-ranking listings you have become passive-income-generating businesses on their own. 4:00 Okay, so hopefully that helps to get us all on the same page as to what print on
demand is. There are a couple other important things 4:06 we need to discuss before moving on. And the first thing is that Amazon is the largest print on demand platform out there,
4:12 but they are not the only print on demand platform out there. Since we are creating the designs ourselves, we own the rights to that design, 4:18 so we can upload it anywhere
we want to. And a lot of these big print on demand websites are non-exclusive. 4:23 So you can upload your design to Amazon and sell it here, but you can also upload it to a couple
of the other print on demand websites as well 4:29 and get sales from those websites all at the same time. Now, what's going to be cool is that I've been selling on the big print
on demand websites for years now, 4:35 so I've been able to figure out which ones generate the most sales and are worth your time to upload to. So as we get further in this video,
4:41 I will share just the couple big print on demand websites that I recommend uploading to. These are going to be the ones that generate the most sales for you. 4:47 Now,
speaking of other print on demand websites, this is the last thing I wanna mention in this section before we get onto the step-by-step tutorial. 4:53 What this is is that there are
two main ways to do print on demand. The first way is called passive print on demand. 4:59 That is what I have just showed you. It's where you create the designs, you upload them
to these big print on demand marketplaces, they do everything for you. 5:05 You just get a split of the profit. Now the other way to do print on demand is called active print on
demand. Now this is for those of you who want to build 5:12 kind of a full-fledged clothing brand and you want full control over that website and the brand yourself. So with active
print on demand, 5:18 you create your own designs, just like passive print on demand, but you upload them to your own website. You do the marketing and the advertising to bring
buyers 5:24 to your website, and then every time you receive an order, you can have that printed and shipped by a print on demand fulfillment company, 5:30 but you are still going
to be handling all of the customer service. Now, I have done print on demand both ways, both passive and active, and over the years of doing this, 5:37 I have moved entirely to
passive print on demand. It simply just gives you a better lifestyle overall. 5:42 You don't have to be worrying about customer service, you don't have to be worrying about
advertising. And as a beginner who's just getting into print on demand, 5:48 it's definitely a lot easier to get started. So with that being said, this entire tutorial that we are
going to do today 5:54 is going to be all based on passive print on demand. All right, so hopefully that all makes sense. If you have any questions so far, 5:59 just let me know
down in the comments, but let's get started in this tutorial. So when it comes to starting a print on demand business, What Topics To Choose 6:05 the very first step that you do is
not actually create your accounts on the print on demand websites. The first step that you take is start 6:10 coming up with ideas, niches, topics, different things that you want
to create T-shirt designs about. 6:15 So in order to save you kind of years of trial and error here and kind of starting with a blank slate, I will say the two best categories
overall 6:22 to create designs in that sell the best are going to be occupations and hobbies. These two categories can be broken down into pretty much 6:29 unlimited ideas for you
to create designs in, and they make it very easy to avoid the one really big mistake 6:34 that people make when creating designs for print on demand. The one really big mistake
that people make is they create designs about things 6:41 that are trademarked or copyrighted. This is a big no-no in print on demand. It's pretty much the only thing 6:46 that you
cannot create designs about. So if you haven't really heard of trademarks or copyrights, essentially what that is is things that other people own. 6:53 So the biggest examples of
this would be company names or company logos or sports teams names 6:58 or sports teams logos. You can't use anything that someone else has spent years or a lot of money trying to
build up their reputation 7:05 and sell things based off of that reputation. So for example, you couldn't just take the Coca-Cola logo and slap that on a design with your own funny
phrase 7:12 and try to sell that for print on demand. Coca-Cola has spent so many years and so much money to build up that reputation, 7:19 and that is their brand. It is their
reputation, it is recognizably theirs, so we can't just come in and try to make money off of it. 7:25 So with that being said, as we start going through this tutorial, I'm going to
show you the beginner way and the advanced way to do each one of these steps. How To Find Design Ideas 7:31 So starting with this very first step of coming up with different ideas
to create T-shirt designs about, specifically occupations or hobbies, 7:37 the very beginner way to do this would be to come over to Google and type in list of occupations. You are
going to have a ton of different results here. 7:44 If you just click on the first one. You are going to see a massive list of occupations. Now this is a good way to brainstorm
some ideas, 7:51 but I have found this way to not be very efficient because your mind just kind of grabs an idea here and then it sees something else. 7:57 It bounces around and
you can't really formulate good design ideas. So the advanced way that I would recommend to do this 8:02 is to use artificial intelligence. So this is the very first tool we're
going to use. It's called ChatGPT. I'll put a link to this one down in the description. 8:09 I'll also put links to every other tool we use throughout this tutorial. If you go
below this video, all of those links will be waiting for you directly 8:16 to the tools we're using so you don't have to go on Google and try to find them yourself. Now this tool,
ChatGPT, is a totally free artificial intelligence tool. 8:23 Now what's cool about using ChatGPT is you can customize what you are searching for. So on Google, you get kind of
just a big, 8:28 generic list of occupations. On ChatGPT, you could say something like, 50 popular occupations, 8:34 click Enter to give that a search. And this is going to start
typing these out. Right off the bat, you can see how much easier it is to process these. 8:40 It's just a simple list. And what's cool about this is these are more popular
occupations. So these specifically are going to be occupations 8:46 that have more attention or they're kind of trending right now. What I love about ChatGPT is that you can get as
creative 8:51 as you want with these searches. So you can say 50 indoor occupations, outdoor occupations, occupations for people over 50 years old or for teenagers. 8:59 Every time
you make a search here, you can get more and more creative and you're going to get results that other people haven't found so easily. 9:04 Okay, so I'm about to show you how to use
this list in a second here. But throughout this entire masterclass, I wanna just drop some golden nuggets 9:10 or really helpful pieces of advice that I wish I had when I was
starting out. So the first kind of golden nugget in this video is that the vast majority 9:16 of your sales in print on demand are going to come as purchases for gifts. This goes
hand in hand why occupations 9:22 and hobbies are such good topics for print on demand. When you are thinking about buying a gift for someone, you typically think about what do
they like to do, 9:29 and that either has to do with what they do every day as their occupation or what they do as their hobbies. Okay, so as you go through the rest of this
tutorial, 9:35 keep that in mind. It will definitely help when you are creating your own designs. Okay, so getting back to this, this was the very first step here. 9:42 It's a very
simple step, but we need a good process to brainstorm ideas that's not just as simple as searching on Google and getting the same results 9:48 that everyone else is going to get.
But this brings us into the next step, which possibly could be the most important step out of this entire tutorial. 9:55 What that is is that over the last couple of years in print
on demand, more people have found out about the business model. 10:00 So other people have found just overall really big topics like software developer or nurses or teachers. 10:06
So we can't go in and just create general designs about nurses, let's say, because a lot of other people have already created designs 10:12 about these big overall topics. So
you're going to have a lot of competitors. So what this next step is is we need to take these big ideas 10:19 and we need to find the gaps within them. So to give you an example of
that, for nurse, for instance, there are many different types of nurses. 10:26 There's not just general nurses. So in this next step, I'll show you exactly how to do this. Let's
use nurse for an example. 10:32 So let's just copy this. I'm going to right-click, copy that to our clipboard, and now I'm going to bring you into the next tool 10:37 that we use
to do this process. So this tool is called Merch Informer. If you've seen my other videos on this channel for print on demand, 10:43 this is a tool that I use as a foundation for
my print on demand process. You will see that as we go through this tutorial. 10:49 Now, before I get logged in and show you how to do this part of the process, I do wanna be super
transparent here. Merch Informer is a paid tool. 10:55 So they have both monthly plans and yearly plans and it breaks down into two main plans. So you have a Newbie plan and a
Professional plan. 11:01 For the vast majority of people out there, all you need is the Newbie plan. If you get the Professional plan, it's going to increase the amount of searches
you can do. 11:08 I personally would just recommend saving that until you get further along in the print on demand business where you really start to scale things up. 11:13 Then
the Professional plan's going to be better for you. But for this tutorial, and especially when you're just getting started, the Newbie plan's all you need. 11:19 Two important
things about them is, first, they do have a three-day free trial. So you can follow along in this tutorial. 11:24 You can even use the tool for the next couple of days, totally for
free. And since I've been using them for so long, I have a 20% off personal coupon code. 11:31 I will put that down in the description for you guys. Feel free to use that. It takes
