The Direction Shift Master Document Story + Shoot Archive + 30-Post Calendar + Drafted Captions + Visual Pull List 2017 - 2026 // Sniped Media // BJ Part 1: The Story The Beginning
Dad had a pulmonary embolism on September 25, 2017. Coach Eric Jones, head boys basketball coach at West Orange High School in Winter Garden, Florida. That was the backdrop to
everything that came after. Before the camera, there was football. Signed to Seton Hill in Pittsburgh on national signing day, Division 2. They only had accounting. The engineering
was a 3-and-2 at Pittsburgh, two more years. And it was cold. Visited twice, both times it was cold. So that fell apart. Ended up at Tuskegee. Played football, ran for things on
campus damn near every year. Real student athlete. Came through Rave Review, the modeling troupe. Learned how to walk, how to stand. That shaped how I think about posing and
direction today. Freshman year had a clothing line called Blase 5 Ever. Lost about 3 or 4 friends over it sophomore year. They wanted to start a brand together but never wanted to
do anything with it. I took action. They felt some type of way. Still think about whether I went about it the right way. But I was a take-action type of dude then, and I still am
now. The Camera First camera was my dad's Nikon. Used it on a study abroad trip to Haiti with the honors program in May 2018. That was technically the first time I shot anything,
but it didn't move the needle. My dad needed it back for a season anyway. Two hydroplaning accidents 11 days apart in May 2018. May 16th, on the way to the airport for the Haiti
trip, with a friend. No injuries. May 27th, totaled my own car in Orlando leaving a girl's place. Road was wet, spun out on the exit ramp merging onto a freeway. No harm done
physically, but I was traumatized. Two in 11 days. Started thinking I was living wrong. Bought my own camera March 26, 2019. That's the real start. Unboxed it that day. The next
day, March 27th, I went to Clemson for admitted student day for the city and regional planning program, fall 2019. The Robbery Around April 6, 2019. Had some of my line brothers
over at my house in Tuskegee. Senior year house with my roommate and teammate KD. Three bedrooms, kitchen, living room, backyard, front yard, garage, driveway. More space than we
needed. Was going to stay home that night. Changed my mind, went out. Came back around 2:00, 2:30 in the morning. Everything gone. They kicked in the back door. Flipped the bed.
Stole my gun, shoes, clothes, jewelry, laptop, TV, video game system. Everything. The camera was in my car. It was one of the only things I still had. My ex had been there maybe a
week or two before. If she had been there that night, I can't even imagine. The car being empty of people is the only reason nobody got hurt. Called the police. Found my Mac
pinging at a specific address. They went, old lady answered, said she didn't know anything. That was good enough for them. My strength and conditioning coach was the sheriff of the
town. Still couldn't get my shit back. No renter's insurance. Nobody taught me about that. Saw people wearing my stuff around the corner a couple days later. That's small town
Tuskegee. This is why I can never turn my back on my camera. It's the only thing I kept from that night. Still have it to this day. First time I'm really thinking about it like
that. Post-Graduation 2019 Graduated Tuskegee May 11, 2019. A month after getting robbed. Lost everything I'd accumulated over four years, right before I was supposed to step into
a new chapter. Had one job offer. Wichita, Kansas. Milling or something. Turned it down. Got an offer from Pratt and Whitney in Columbus, treated it like an internship for the
summer. Then Clemson for grad school in the fall. Mom helped me apply. Moved into a one-bedroom apartment at Clemson on August 17, 2019. Second floor, four-unit building. Kitchen
when you walk in, living room straight ahead, bedroom off to the left. Had my Interfit S1 light, 600-800 watts. That company doesn't exist anymore but the light was powerful. Had
my portable studio kit, softbox, 6 or 7 foot backdrop. August 31, 2019 was my first shoot in that apartment. Shot myself. Sent the photos to one of my line brothers. He said they
could be better. The blacks weren't dark enough, the colors were off. Low-key crushed me. But that's when I realized editing makes the difference. Doing More With Less This has
been the entire story. One light in a Clemson apartment. A 3-foot backdrop roll. A futon in the living room with enough space for a setup. Did shoots there with models, changed
fits, shot different backgrounds. All in a one-bedroom. The conference room at my apartment building later became my studio. Until somebody snitched and said I was disturbing the
community. Got banned from using it. Then my mentor's studio. Then my own garage when I got a house in August 2023. Then a conference room again at the next apartment building.
Then finally, January 8, 2025, my first real studio space. Paid $4,500 for it over the year. Moved out February 2, 2026. Every era was the same pattern: find a space, make it work,
lose it or outgrow it, find the next one. The work never stopped regardless of the space. LA Always knew I was going to be out here. Officially moved summer 2021 after graduating
from Clemson May 5, 2021. Did Uber Eats and DoorDash until I got my first real job. Diamond member on Uber Eats. First crib out here August 3, 2021. Had a 2003 Toyota Solara.
Started at Amazon AWS October 2021. Then moved to 12-hour shifts, 3 days on 3 off, 4 days on 4 off, rotating days to nights every 2 months. Did that from January 2023 until May
2025. Got promoted to field engineer, remote, work from home, traveling for work. Coming up on a year now. Sites in metro places. Toronto, Houston, Dallas, San Francisco. The
Personal Side Got engaged December 2022. Christmas. Parents were in town. Wedding was supposed to be October 2024. Called it off a few months before. Still living together through
it. She backed out of the Tuskegee Homecoming trip the day before. That trip ended up being one of the best decisions I made. Came back refreshed. In a relationship now. Thinking
about long-term partnership and family. The Debt and The Business First investment deal lost $20,000. Still trying to get it back. Clearvue Investments LLC. Promissory note
situation out of Florida. Credit score was 721 in March 2024. Now it's under 600. $40-50K in debt plus $30-40K in student loans. Two LLCs: Sniped Media / Sniped Enterprises
(Delaware) and a separate LA-based photography business LLC. Where I Am Now Seven years of shooting. The quality is there. The editing style is finalized. The systems are built.
The website just relaunched. The book is about to drop. The gap has always been the personal element. The content is technically perfect but it doesn't make people want to be part
of the journey. The posts are precise, the captions are clean, the branding is right. But nobody reads it. It's too perfect. Hair transplant in Turkey, March 29 to April 2, 2026.
Got teeth whitened and stem cells done. Explored Istanbul. Grand Bazaar, Blue Mosque, museums. The camera is the only thing I kept from 2019. Everything else is new. The story is
the same. Part 2: The Complete Shoot Archive Every shoot, session, event, and documented moment organized chronologically. Use this to locate photos in Lightroom by date. Full list
in the standalone Direction Shift doc. Below are the key dates referenced in the 30-post calendar. 2018 May 16-27 // Haiti study abroad with dad's Nikon. Two hydroplaning accidents
11 days apart. 2019 Mar 26 // Camera unboxing. The real start. Apr 6 // House robbed in Tuskegee. Camera survived in the car. Apr-May // Grad shoots: SGA court (11 people), LBs,
Miss Tuskegee, engineering friends, deltas, AKAs. May 1-8 // LA trip. Nipsey memorial May 2. Mentor Larry Bernard May 3. First Dodgers game May 7. May 9 // Three friends boardroom
grad shoot. On-camera flash, 24-105 lens. May 11 // Graduated Tuskegee. Aug 17-21 // Moved into Clemson apartment. Video of moving in. Aug 31 // First shoot in Clemson apartment.
Self-portraits. 'They could be better.' Oct 26-27 // Clemson homecoming. Step show with the Noops. Dec 13 // Dad's basketball game. West Orange High School. 2020 Jan 3 // Amber
Lynn night shoot, Playa Vista. She now has 158K followers. Aug 28 // Million Man March, DC. One of the most fire pictures ever. Hit head on sign, missed last train. Sep 1-2 //
Tally Spencer shoot. Walt Disney Concert Hall. She's now in media/hosting. Nov 29 // Conference room model shoot. White backdrop. First time with that model. Dec 9 // Studio shoot.
Three girls, multiple looks, changed backgrounds. 2021 Jan 26-28 // Snipe Media rebrand. Valentine's shoot. Swimwear/director shots. Feb 5 // Snipe Media officially born. First
logo. May 3 // Self-shoot. TikTok went viral. May 5 // Graduated Clemson. May 7 // Mom's headshots in Charlotte. Aug 28 // Birthday pics. Best pics ever. 2022-2023 Dec 2022 // Got
engaged. Christmas. Jan 2023 // Started at server farm (current employer). Mar 2023 // WPPI Vegas first time. May-Jul 2023 // Conference room shoots before getting banned. Aug 4,
2023 // Cam Kirk Studios, Atlanta. 2024 May 13-14 // Upgraded ring. Dumb decision. Sep 12 // Best friend's mom birthday studio shoot. Nov 1 // Tuskegee Homecoming. Alandria shoot
(Love Island, millions of followers). Never posted. Dec 3 // Celebrity BTS. Photos used over main photographer's. Dec 11 // JD McCrary (voice of young Simba). Five looks. All
photos and BTS. Dec 17 // Company holiday party. Photos in the newsletter. 2025 Jan 8 // First real studio space. Jan 20 // Donny shoot. Fire session. Jan 24 // Sanctuary brand
campaign. Feb 2-6 // Free headshot campaign. 25 sessions, 3 days. Feb 15 // Almalove swimwear. Palos Verdes. Horses, cowgirl theme. Mar 15 // Engagement shoot. Vasquez Rocks, Santa
Clarita. Mar 25 // Two shoots at studio. Model for the book + another guy. Mar 30 // Pure Motion Fitness. 3 looks, one set, full creative direction. Apr 1 // Beat by Tai. 2 models,
makeup. Wedding dress shots. Jul 17 // Stephen D. Davis Law Group. Aug 16 // Church event. Mayor Karen Bass speaking. Sep 13-14 // Toronto. CFL game, Blue Jays game. 2026 Feb 2 //
Ball brothers podcast stills. Moved out of studio same day. Feb 20 // Attorney portrait session. Mar (early) // Family shoot Malibu. Mom's 70th birthday. 10 people. Mar 29 - Apr 2
// Turkey. Hair transplant. Istanbul. Part 3: The 30-Post Calendar The Direction Shift. 6 pillars, 6 weeks, 30 posts. Each post has the caption direction, visual, Lightroom pull
date, and posting notes. The 6 Pillars 1. Origin: The story from the doc. Robbery, one light in Clemson, the camera you still use. 2. Craft: BTS, one-light setups, before/after
edits, gear philosophy. 3. Campaign: MD and Grad flyers, urgency, deadlines. 4. Client work: Recent delivered frames with context, not just the image. 5. Social proof: 'Shot her at
300 followers, she has 158K now' type stories. 6. Personal reveal: Hair transplant, new car, engagement that didn't happen, the $20K loss. The Direction Shift is real when pillars
1, 5, 6 are half your feed. Right now it's probably 100% pillar 2 and 4. Week 1: Apr 20-26 // Launch the Shift + MD Pre-Push Post 1 // Origin Hook: "Seven years. One camera. The
only thing I kept from April 6, 2019." Caption (paste-ready) For seven years this feed has shown you the work. Clean frames. Clean captions. Nothing wrong with it except it never
let you in. The camera in my hand is the only thing I kept when my house got robbed April 2019. Tuskegee, senior year. They cleaned me out. I was going to stay home that night.
Changed my mind. Camera was in my car. That's the only reason I still have one. I've shot every job since then with that same camera. You've never heard this from me because I've
been too focused on making sure the photos could stand on their own. They do. They always have. But the photos are the receipt, not the story. The next 30 posts are the story.
Welcome to the shift. Visual: Reel, 35-40 seconds. Voiceover over shots of camera, old Clemson apartment, new DTLA studio. Beat 1: extreme close-up on the 2019 camera, your hand
turning it (0-4s). Beat 2: Clemson apartment shot, grainy, one light visible (4-8s). Beat 3: quick cuts, 2019 grad frame to 2022 conference room to 2025 DTLA studio, one second
each (8-14s). Beat 4: text on black 'It's too perfect.' hold, burn out (14-18s). Beat 5: montage aligned to confessions (18-26s). Beat 6: you in the studio now, directing, shutter
sound (26-34s). Beat 7: close on camera, fade, text 'The Direction Shift. 30 posts.' (34-40s). Lightroom Pull: Camera close-up: shoot today. Clemson apartment: Aug 17-21, 2019.
Early grad frame: Apr 2019. Conference room: Oct 8, 2022 or Nov 29, 2022. DTLA studio: any Jan-Feb 2025 studio shot. You directing: any recent BTS. Note: Drop as reel, not
carousel. Pin to profile. Sunday or Monday 7-9pm PT. No hashtags. Reply to every comment. Post 2 // Campaign Hook: "Mother's Day. May 2 and 3. 12 spots. DM 'MOM'." Caption
(paste-ready) I shot my mom's headshots in Charlotte the week after I graduated Clemson in 2021. She still uses one in her email signature. That's the only gig I've never been paid
for. It's the one I'm most proud of. Most people never book the photos. They mean to. They save the idea for 'when the kids are older' or 'when I've lost a little more.' Then the
photo doesn't exist and one day somebody wishes it did. Mother's Day. May 2 and 3. DTLA studio. 12 spots total. The Moment. 30 minutes. 5 retouched frames. $275. The Feature. 60
minutes. 15 to 20 retouched frames + 8x10 fine-art print. $550. DM 'MOM' or tap the link in bio. Under half the spots are left. Visual: Carousel, 4 slides. Slide 1: your mom's
headshot from Charlotte May 7, 2021 (ties directly to the caption opening). Slide 2: Malibu family shoot Mar 2026, mom's 70th, 10 people. Slide 3: best friend's mom birthday studio
shoot Sep 12, 2024. Slide 4: maternity shoot Kimonte and Shonda Jun 5, 2020. NO FLYER IN THE FEED. Flyer goes to stories + ads + DM replies only. See Part 5 for full rationale.
Lightroom Pull: Mom's headshots: May 7, 2021, Charlotte. Malibu family: Mar 2026. Best friend's mom: Sep 12, 2024. Maternity: Jun 5, 2020. Backup: Thanksgiving 2024 family shoot.
Note: Morning after post 1. 10am-noon PT. 3 stories same day spaced 2 hours: flyer with link sticker, countdown sticker for May 2, screenshot of a DM reply. Verify the email
signature detail is accurate before posting. Post 3 // Social Proof Hook: "I shot her when she had 300 followers. She has 158K now." Caption (paste-ready) January 3, 2020. Playa
Vista. Night shoot with my mentor photographer. The model was Amber Lynn. I don't even remember how we connected. Friend of a friend. I had been shooting for less than a year. The
edit was off. The colors weren't where I wanted them. But the direction was there. I knew where to put her. I knew how to get the frame. She has 158,000 followers now. I
screenshotted her page today. Six years later and the photos from that night are still some of my favorites. The people you shoot early on are the receipts for where you've been.
Shoot everyone you can while nobody knows either of your names. Visual: Carousel. Slide 1: best frame from that Jan 3 2020 session. Slide 2: screenshot of her page today showing
158K. Slide 3: second frame from the session if you have one. Lightroom Pull: Jan 3, 2020 in Lightroom. Playa Vista night shoot. Also: her current IG screenshot (already taken per
the brain dump). Note: This is your 'I was there before it mattered' post. The specifics (date, location, follower count) are what make it land. Wednesday, midday. Post 4 // Craft
Hook: "One light. A bedsheet. A futon. That was the setup for my first 50 shoots." Caption (paste-ready) August 2019. Clemson, South Carolina. One-bedroom apartment on the second
floor. Kitchen when you walked in, living room straight ahead, bedroom to the left. I had one Interfit S1. 600 watts. The company doesn't even exist anymore. A softbox. A 3-foot
backdrop roll. A futon I pushed against the wall every time I set up. That's where I shot my first 50 sessions. Models, friends, line brothers, grad shoots. All in that living
room. The setup hasn't changed as much as you'd think. One key light is still one key light. The space just got bigger. Visual: Side-by-side. Left: old Clemson apartment photo
showing the setup (if you have it) or the earliest studio shot from Aug 31, 2019. Right: a recent DTLA studio frame. Same energy, different era. Lightroom Pull: Aug 17-21, 2019
(moving in video/stills) or Aug 31, 2019 (first self-portrait session). For the 'now' side: any Jan-Feb 2025 studio frame. Note: Friday. This is the 'doing more with less' thesis
in one post. Keep the caption factual, not inspirational. Post 5 // Personal Reveal Hook: "Went to Turkey to rebuild my hairline. Same trip I rebuilt my head." Caption
(paste-ready) March 29 to April 2, 2026. Istanbul. Flew 12 hours for a hair transplant. They took the hair out of the back in the morning, put it in the front in the afternoon.
Could barely sleep that night. Went back the next day for cleaning, got my teeth whitened, stem cells done. By 2pm I was in the Grand Bazaar. Walked through the Blue Mosque. Hit
two more mosques and a museum. Bought some things. Ate some things. Explored a city I'd never been to by myself with a swollen head and new teeth. The hairline is growing in. But
the real thing I got from that trip was 4 days of being alone with my decisions in a city where nobody knew my name. Visual: Carousel. Turkey photos: Grand Bazaar, Blue Mosque, you
at the clinic (before/after if comfortable), city shots. 4-6 slides. Lightroom Pull: Mar 29 - Apr 2, 2026 in your camera roll. Istanbul photos. Note: Saturday or Sunday. This is
the post that proves you're not just a portfolio page. Raw, honest, specific. No motivational framing. Just what happened. Week 2: Apr 27 - May 3 // MD Peak Post 6 // Campaign
Hook: "3 days left to book Mother's Day." Caption (paste-ready) May 2 and 3. DTLA studio. The spots are going. The Moment: $275. The Feature: $550. Link in bio or DM 'MOM'. No
awkward posing. We direct you the whole time. Gallery in 48 hours. Visual: MD flyer variant B if you have one. If not, same flyer with urgency text overlay in stories. Lightroom
Pull: Existing MD flyer asset. Note: Monday. Story + feed. Countdown sticker in stories. Post 7 // Origin Hook: "The house got robbed. The camera was in my car. That's why I still
own it." Caption (paste-ready) April 6, 2019. Tuskegee, Alabama. Senior year. I had a house with my roommate KD. Three bedrooms, kitchen, living room, garage, driveway. More than
two seniors needed. I had just bought my camera 11 days earlier. Was going to stay home that night. Changed my mind. Came back at 2am. Back door kicked in. Bed flipped. Gun, shoes,
clothes, jewelry, laptop, TV, video games. All gone. The camera was in the car. It's still in my hands. A month later I graduated. Four years of things I'd accumulated, gone. Right
before I was supposed to start a new chapter. Started it anyway. Visual: Black tile with white text. Or if you have photos of the kicked-in back door from Apr 6, 2019, use those.
Raw. Unedited. The uglier the better for this one. Lightroom Pull: Apr 6, 2019 in Lightroom. Robbery aftermath photos. Or a photo of the camera itself, close-up. Note: Tuesday or
Wednesday. Don't over-produce this. Plain frame, long caption. People read raw. Post 8 // Client Work Hook: "Attorneys hire us because we direct. We don't beg for smiles." Caption
(paste-ready) Stephen D. Davis Law Group. July 2025. Nine attorneys. Fifteen minutes each. Zero lost billable hours. The difference between a headshot that sits in a folder and one
that goes straight to the website is direction. Most people sit down in front of a camera and freeze. That's not their fault. Nobody taught them what to do with their hands. I tell
them exactly where to look, how to hold their chin, when to breathe. The session is the product. The photos are the receipt. Visual: The Stephen D. Davis hero portrait. Clean,
professional, undeniable. Lightroom Pull: Jul 17, 2025 in Lightroom. The strongest single attorney portrait. Note: Wednesday or Thursday. Cross-post to LinkedIn with a different
caption focused on the business outcome. Post 9 // Campaign (story-only) Hook: "Tomorrow is the first session. Last chance." Caption Story-native only. Not a grid post. Booking
link sticker. 'Last spots for MD weekend. DM MOM or tap here.' Visual: Studio setup photo. The space ready for the next day. Lights on, backdrop up, stool set. Lightroom Pull:
Shoot this the night before May 2. Phone photo is fine. Note: Thursday May 1, evening. Stories only. 2-3 slides: studio ready, pricing reminder, link. Post 10 // Craft Hook: "What
6 years of editing looks like." Caption (paste-ready) 2019: Couldn't get the blacks dark enough. My line brother told me the edit needed work. He was right. 2022: Started getting
the tones where I wanted them. Still over-saturating. Still not trusting the shadows. 2025: The edit is the edit. Skin tones live in the orange and yellow channels. Shadows get
teal. Highlights get warmth. Confidence in the grade means I spend 90 seconds on a photo instead of 30 minutes. The photos got better because the editing got honest. Not more
complex. More honest. Visual: Carousel, 3 slides. Slide 1: a 2019 edit (raw or early edit, showing the weaker processing). Slide 2: a 2022 edit (better but still not there). Slide
3: a 2025 edit (current standard). Same type of portrait if possible, different subjects is fine. Lightroom Pull: 2019: Aug 31, 2019 self-portraits or any early Clemson shoot.
2022: Sep 24 or Nov 29, 2022. 2025: any Jan-Mar 2025 studio session. Note: Friday. This post proves your skill progression without bragging. The line brother detail ties it back to
post 1 and the origin story. Post 11 // Campaign (live) Hook: "MD weekend. Here's what the studio looks like right now." Caption (paste-ready) Mother's Day weekend. The studio is
running. Behind the scenes from today's sessions. Every frame is directed. Every mom walks out knowing exactly what she's getting. A few spots opened up for tomorrow. DM 'MOM' if
you want in. Visual: BTS from Saturday May 2 session. You directing, the studio in action, candid moments between setups. Lightroom Pull: Shoot this live on May 2. Phone BTS is
fine for stories. Pull one clean BTS frame for the grid post. Note: Saturday May 2, late afternoon or evening after the sessions. Real-time content. This proves the campaign is
real, not just flyers. Week 3: May 4-10 // MD Closeout, Grad Launch Post 12 // Client Work Hook: "This is what Mother's Day looked like." Visual: Best 3 frames from the MD weekend
sessions. Carousel. Lightroom Pull: May 2-3, 2026. Best selects from the MD sessions you just shot. Note: Monday. The payoff. Proves the campaign delivered. Post 13 // Personal
Reveal Hook: "Credit was 721 two years ago. Now it's under 600. I'm building this in real time." Visual: Plain frame + long caption. Minimal visual. Vulnerability pillar. Lightroom
Pull: No Lightroom pull needed. Use a text tile or a simple photo of yourself. Note: Tuesday. Don't over-produce. 4-sentence caption max on the visual. The real caption goes in the
text. Post 14 // Campaign Hook: "Roll Credits. LA Grad Season 2026." Visual: Your winning grad flyer variant from the A/B test. Lightroom Pull: Existing grad flyer asset. Note:
Wednesday. This launches the grad push. Post 15 // Origin Hook: "My first grad shoot was the Tuskegee 2019 SGA court. 11 people. One lens." Visual: A 2019 grad frame next to a 2025
LMU or USC frame. Side by side. Lightroom Pull: 2019: Apr 2019, SGA court shoot. 2025: May 2, 2025 (old movie theater grad shoot) or LMU/USC grad shoots. Note: Friday. Post 16 //
Craft Hook: "You pick the stage. DTLA studio or your campus." Visual: Split screen: studio shot + campus shot. Lightroom Pull: Studio: any recent studio portrait. Campus: any grad
shoot on a campus. Note: Saturday. Post 17 // Social Proof Hook: "JD McCrary. Voice of young Simba. Five looks in one session." Visual: JD carousel. 3-5 frames across the different
looks. Lightroom Pull: Dec 24, 2025 (Dec 11 in the brain dump, Dec 24 on Lightroom date). Coral jacket, white shirt/tie, pink cardigan, Lakers jacket, green rugby. Note: Sunday.
This is your biggest name drop. Let the work and the name do the talking. Week 4: May 11-17 // Grad Momentum + Story Depth Post 18 // Personal Reveal Hook: "I called off my wedding
a few months before. Went to Homecoming anyway. That trip saved me." Lightroom Pull: Nov 1, 2024 or Nov 9, 2024. Tuskegee Homecoming photos. One honest photo. Note: Monday. Long
caption. This is the post that makes people feel something. Don't script it too tight. Post 19 // Campaign Hook: "Grad dates are filling for end of May." Lightroom Pull: Existing
grad flyer variant 2. Note: Tuesday. Post 20 // Craft Hook: "For every frame you see, 500 didn't make it." Visual: Reel or carousel of contact sheets. Show the volume behind one
final frame. Lightroom Pull: Any shoot's contact sheet view from Lightroom. The JD McCrary contact sheets you already screenshotted would be perfect. Note: Wednesday. Post 21 //
Client Work Hook: "Full creative direction. 3 looks. One set." Visual: Pure Motion Fitness campaign frames. Lightroom Pull: Mar 30, 2025. Note: Thursday. Post 22 // Origin Hook:
"Study abroad in Haiti, May 2018. My dad's Nikon. The first time I held one." Visual: Haiti 2018 photos. Lightroom Pull: May 16-27, 2018. Haiti study abroad trip. Note: Friday.
This is before everything. The very beginning. Post 23 // Campaign Hook: "Grad. Mid-month push." Lightroom Pull: Grad flyer variant. Note: Saturday. Week 5: May 18-24 // Grad Push
+ Brand Lift Post 24 // Social Proof Hook: "Tally Spencer. Shot her before she was in media. Now she's hosting." Lightroom Pull: Sep 1-2, 2020. Walt Disney Concert Hall area. Note:
Monday. Same format as the Amber Lynn post. Date, location, where she is now. Post 25 // Personal Reveal Hook: "Lost $20K on my first investment. Still on the books. Here's what I
learned." Lightroom Pull: No Lightroom pull. Minimal visual. Text tile or plain photo. Note: Tuesday. Keep it factual. Don't moralize. Just say what happened and what you took from
it. Post 26 // Craft Hook: "The moment I stopped shooting 'real smiles' and started directing." Visual: BTS clip of you directing a pose. If you don't have video, use a BTS still
where your hand is up giving direction. Lightroom Pull: Any BTS footage from recent sessions. JD McCrary session, headshot campaign, or any client shoot. Note: Wednesday. Post 27
// Campaign Hook: "Two weeks of grad spots left." Lightroom Pull: Grad flyer or bold text tile. Note: Thursday. Post 28 // Client Work Hook: "Almalove swimwear. Palos Verdes.
Cowgirl theme." Visual: The horses-and-bluffs shoot. Lightroom Pull: Feb 15, 2025. Vicente Bluffs Reserve. Also Mar 4, Mar 8, Mar 18 for additional selects. Note: Friday. This is
your strongest lifestyle/brand proof. Week 6: May 25-31 // Grad Closeout + The Book Tease Post 29 // Campaign Hook: "Final grad weekend. Lock it or lose it." Lightroom Pull: Grad
flyer + urgency post. Existing asset. Note: Monday. Last push. Post 30 // Origin + Launch Hook: "The Book is dropping." Caption direction This is the payoff of the Direction Shift.
Six weeks of story earns the announcement. Don't lead with the book. Lead with what it took to write it. 'Seven years of shooting. Conference rooms, apartments, garages. Every
technique I figured out the hard way. I put it in a book because I couldn't find the one I needed when I was starting.' Tease the cover. Tease the content. Don't drop the link yet.
That's post 31. Visual: Book cover. The Direction Stack. Whatever the final cover design is. Lightroom Pull: Book cover asset from your graphic designer. Note: Saturday or Sunday.
Pin this one after unpinning post 1. The shift ends where the next chapter begins. Part 4: Execution Rules How to Execute Write post 1 tonight. The announcement reel for the
Direction Shift. Voiceover pulls directly from the story section of this doc. That post sets the next 29 in context. Don't over-produce the vulnerability posts (7, 13, 18, 25). A
plain tile with a 4-sentence caption outperforms a cinematic reel for those. People read raw. Recycle the archive. This doc is a goldmine. Every throwback post costs zero new shoot
time. Keep the captions tight. 3 to 8 sentences max. Your craft already screams. The captions just need to let people in. Posting Schedule Weekday posts: 10am-noon PT or 7-9pm PT.
Weekend posts: Saturday 3-6pm PT. Sunday 8-10pm PT. Stories: Every day. 2-3 minimum. Every grid post goes to story with tap-to-view. Hashtags: None for the Direction Shift series.
These are frame-setters, not discovery posts. Comments: Reply to every comment on posts 1-5. Train your audience that you engage. The rest gets easier after that. Pin Strategy Week
1-3: Post 1 (the launch reel) pinned to profile. Week 4-6: Swap to the strongest-performing post from weeks 1-3. After week 6: Pin post 30 (the book tease). What Happens After Post
30 The Direction Shift is a 6-week sprint. After it, you don't go back to portfolio-only posting. The ratio shifts to roughly 60% craft/client work, 20% origin/personal, 20%
campaign. The shift trained your audience to expect the real you. Don't take that away from them. Post 31 is the book launch. Post 32 is the first customer testimonial. Post 33 is
the first holiday season promo. The machine keeps running. Part 5: Revised Post 2 Visual Direction The flyer does not go in the feed. Post 1 told people 'I've been too polished,
here's the real me.' Post 2 opening with a Canva-style sales graphic kills the whole vibe. People book photographers after seeing what they'll get, not after reading the offer.
Feed = the work. Stories/ads/DMs = the flyer. The feed is your portfolio. Every post is a curated slot. Flyers are ephemeral assets for transactional moments. Mixing them cheapens
the feed and dulls the flyer. Revised Post 2 Visual: Carousel Pull 4 slides from your archive of past mom/family/maternity sessions: Slide 1: Your mom's headshot from Charlotte,
May 7, 2021. Hook slide. Ties directly to the caption's opening line so the viewer sees what you described. Not polished ad copy, an actual frame of the woman in the story. Slide
2: Malibu family shoot, March 2026. Mom's 70th birthday. 10 people. Recent, mom-focused, proves you handle big family groups. Strongest 'she'll love this' visual in your archive.
Slide 3: Best friend's mom birthday shoot, September 12, 2024, studio. Directly themed to the audience you're selling to (adults booking for their mothers). Slide 4: Maternity
shoot, Kimonte and Shonda, June 5, 2020. Expands the scope (not just grown kids + mom, also expecting moms). Catches a second buyer segment. If any of those don't have a frame that
screams, sub in the Thanksgiving 2024 family shoot or a cleaner studio select. Where the Flyer Still Goes to Work Instagram Stories: 3 drops same day as post 2. Static flyer + link
sticker to /mothers-day. That's its natural habitat. Meta paid ads: Upload flyer variants. Story placement + reel placement, 1080x1920, cold audience targeting. DM reply asset:
When a new lead DMs 'MOM', reply with the flyer as the first visual before the qualifier questions. The only time a flyer belongs in the feed is when you're launching a brand-new
campaign your audience hasn't heard of yet and you need to drop the info fast. Both MD and Grad are already known, so you don't need to. Part 6: Spec Campaigns Re-Editing the
Archive Free content with compounding returns. Your edit style in 2020 was not your edit style in 2026. Re-edit old frames and post them. Two framings that work: Diptych: 'Same
frame. Six years of edits apart.' 2019 edit vs. 2026 edit. Craft pillar. Shows the hours behind the current look. Unreleased: Pull a raw frame from a shoot you never posted.
Caption the context: when, who, why it sat on the drive. Uses the shoot archive as your source list. Every post costs zero new shoot time. This is 4-6 of the next 30 posts, easy.
Every one adds a new story beat from the archive. Spec Ad Concepts for LA Pick two. Don't spread thin. Two hero spec campaigns over 30 posts is enough. Each one unlocks 3-4
derivative posts (BTS reel, final image carousel, behind-the-concept breakdown, the storyboard). Use AI for pre-visualization, then shoot it for real with models who fit the
concept. That's how commercial creative directors work. AI becomes storyboarding, not output. Do not post AI-faked celebrity likenesses. California has the strongest
right-of-publicity laws in the country. Concept 1: 'If I shot Marathon's next campaign' The shoot: Real model at Slauson in Marathon aesthetic. No celebrity likenesses needed. Why
it travels: Nipsey's audience + LA culture share it instantly. Lightroom pull for mood: May 2, 2019 Nipsey memorial photos for reference/BTS context. Concept 2: 'Dodgers opener
mood' The shoot: Portrait-style editorial around Dodger Stadium exterior in their blue + a suited model. You were just at the April 8, 2026 home opener. Why it travels: Dodgers
fans + sports photogs. Lightroom pull for mood: Apr 8, 2026 Dodgers opener photos. May 7, 2019 first Dodgers game for the origin tie-in. Concept 3: 'In-N-Out after close' The
shoot: Exterior at golden hour with a model in a plain tee + the bag. Subject and burger. No other people. Why it travels: Universal LA iconography. Concept 4: 'Lakers mid-finals'
The shoot: Nearest game, shoot a jersey-clad portrait in your studio with their lighting palette. Why it travels: Lakers posts are instantly shareable. Lightroom pull for mood: JD
McCrary's Lakers jacket shots from Dec 24, 2025 for color/vibe reference. Concept 5: 'Rams training camp' The shoot: Reach out to their PR, or shoot a spec portrait of an aspiring
football player in Rams colors. Why it travels: Sports editorial crossover. Ties to your football background at Tuskegee. Lightroom pull for mood: Apr 16, 2019 football jersey
photos on the field for the origin connection. Pre-Production Checklist (for each spec) 1. Storyboard: Mood board in Midjourney or Nano Banana. 4-6 reference frames showing the
concept, lighting, wardrobe, location. 2. Model: Cast someone who fits the concept naturally. Not a friend doing you a favor. Someone who looks the part. 3. Wardrobe: Spec the
exact pieces. Colors matter. Marathon green. Dodger blue. Lakers purple/gold. No generic fits. 4. Location scout: Go to the actual location the day before. Check the light at the
time you plan to shoot. Know your angles. 5. Lighting plot: If you have a gaffer contact, share the storyboard and get a 2-3 light plot before call time. 6. Shoot day: Capture BTS
the entire time. Phone is fine. The BTS reel is worth as much as the final image for content purposes. 7. Post-production: Edit to your current standard. No over-grading for the
spec. It should look like it belongs on your feed next to your real client work. How Specs Slot Into the 30-Post Plan Add a 7th pillar: Spec Campaigns. Mixed into the original 6.
Replace: 2 of the 'craft' posts (week 3 and week 5) with spec campaign BTS reels. Replace: 1 of the 'client work' posts (week 4) with the final spec campaign hero image. Derivative
posts: Each spec unlocks 3-4 posts (BTS, final, breakdown, storyboard). Space them across 2 weeks. Pick your 2 spec concepts now. Pre-produce in week 1-2. Shoot in week 3. Post in
weeks 3-5. That timeline lets the specs land during the middle of the Direction Shift when your audience is already paying attention.