“This book synthesizes the teachings of many disciplines to illuminate the
causes of major problems besetting college students and campuses, including
declines in mental health, academic freedom, and collegiality. More
important, the authors present evidence-based strategies for overcoming
these challenges. An engrossing, thought-provoking, and ultimately inspiring
read.”
—Nadine Strossen, past president, ACLU; professor, New York Law School;
and author of HATE: Why We Should Resist It with Free Speech, Not
Censorship

“We can talk ourselves into believing that some kinds of speech will shatter
us, or we can talk ourselves out of that belief. The authors know the science.
We are not as fragile as our self-appointed protectors suppose. Read this
deeply informed book to become a more resilient soul in a more resilient
democracy.”
—Philip E. Tetlock, professor, University of Pennsylvania, and author of
Superforecasting

“This book is a much-needed guide for how to thrive in a pluralistic society.
Lukianoff and Haidt demonstrate how ancient wisdom and modern
psychology can encourage more dialogue across lines of difference, build
stronger institutions, and make us happier. They provide an antidote to our
seemingly intractable divisions, and not a moment too soon.”
—Kirsten Powers, CNN political analyst, USA Today columnist, and author
of The Silencing

“A compelling and timely argument against attitudes and practices that,
however well-intended, are damaging our universities, harming our children,
and leaving an entire generation intellectually and emotionally ill-prepared
for an ever more fraught and complex world. A brave and necessary work.”
—Rabbi Lord Jonathan Sacks, Emeritus Chief Rabbi of UK &
Commonwealth; professor, New York University; and author of Not in God’s
Name

“Objectionable words and ideas, as defined by self-appointed guardians on
university campuses, are often treated like violence from sticks and stones.
Many students cringe at robust debate; maintaining their ideas of good and
evil requires no less than the silencing of disagreeable speakers. Lukianoff and
Haidt brilliantly explain how this drift to fragility occurred, how the
distinction between words and actions was lost, and what needs to be done.
Critical reading to understand the current campus conflicts.”
—Mark Yudof, president emeritus, University of California; and professor
emeritus, UC Berkeley School of Law

“I lament the title of this book, as it may alienate the very people who need to
engage with its arguments and obscures its message of inclusion. Equal parts
mental health manual, parenting guide, sociological study, and political
manifesto, it points to a positive way forward of hope, health, and humanism.
I only wish I had read it when I was still a professor and a much younger
mother.”
—Anne-Marie Slaughter, president and CEO, New America; and author of
Unfinished Business

BY GREG LUKIANOFF

Unlearning Liberty: Campus Censorship and the End of American
Debate
Freedom from Speech
FIRE’s Guide to Free Speech on Campus (With Harvey Silverglate,
David French, and William Creeley)
BY JONATHAN HAIDT

The Happiness Hypothesis: Finding Modern Truth in Ancient
Wisdom
The Righteous Mind: Why Good People Are Divided by Politics and
Religion
All Minus One: John Stuart Mill’s Ideas on Free Speech Illustrated
(With Richard Reeves and Dave Cicirelli)

PENGUIN PRESS
An imprint of Penguin Random House LLC
375 Hudson Street
New York, New York 10014
penguinrandomhouse.com
Copyright © 2018 by Greg Lukianoff and Jonathan Haidt
Penguin supports copyright. Copyright fuels creativity, encourages diverse voices, promotes free speech, and creates a
vibrant culture. Thank you for buying an authorized edition of this book and for complying with copyright laws by not
reproducing, scanning, or distributing any part of it in any form without permission. You are supporting writers and
allowing Penguin to continue to publish books for every reader.
Excerpt from “Professors like me can’t stay silent about this extremist moment on campuses” by Lucía Martínez
Valdivia. Reprinted with the permission of the author. First published in the Washington Post, October 27, 2017.
Excerpt from Your Six-Year-Old: Loving and Defiant, by Louise Bates Ames & Frances L. Ilg. Copyright © 1979 by The
Gesell Institute of Child Development, Louise Bates Ames and Frances L. Ilg. Used by permission of Bantam Books, an
imprint of Random House, a division of Penguin Random House LLC. All rights reserved.
Form on this page from Treatment Plans and Interventions for Depression and Anxiety Disorders, Second Edition,
Robert L. Leahy, Stephen J. F. Holland, and Lata K. McGinn. Copyright © 2011 by Guilford Press. Reprinted with
permission of Guilford Press.
ISBN 9780735224896 (hardcover)
ISBN 9780735224902 (ebook)
While the author has made every effort to provide accurate telephone numbers, Internet addresses, and other contact
information at the time of publication, neither the publisher nor the author assumes any responsibility for errors or for
changes that occur after publication. Further, the publisher does not have any control over and does not assume any
responsibility for author or third-party Web sites or their content.
Version_2

Prepare the child for the road, not the road for the child.
FOLK WISDOM, origin unknown

Your worst enemy cannot harm you as much as your own thoughts,
unguarded. But once mastered, no one can help you as much, not even your
father or your mother.
BUDDHA, Dhammapada1

The line dividing good and evil cuts through the heart of every human being.
ALEKSANDR SOLZHENITSYN, The Gulag Archipelago2

For our mothers, who did their best to prepare us for the road.
JOANNA DALTON LUKIANOFF
ELAINE HAIDT (1931–2017)

CONTENTS

Praise for The Coddling of the American Mind
Also by Greg Lukianoff and Jonathan Haid
Title Page
Copyright
Epigraph
Dedication
INTRODUCTION | The Search for Wisdom

PART I

Three Bad Ideas
CHAPTER 1 | The Untruth of Fragility: What Doesn’t Kill You Makes You Weaker
CHAPTER 2 | The Untruth of Emotional Reasoning: Always Trust Your Feelings
CHAPTER 3 | The Untruth of Us Versus Them: Life Is a Battle Between Good

People and Evil People

PART II

Bad Ideas in Action
CHAPTER 4 | Intimidation and Violence
CHAPTER 5 | Witch Hunts

PART III

How Did We Get Here?

CHAPTER 6 | The Polarization Cycle
CHAPTER 7 | Anxiety and Depression
CHAPTER 8 | Paranoid Parenting
CHAPTER 9 | The Decline of Play
CHAPTER 10 | The Bureaucracy of Safetyism
CHAPTER 11 | The Quest for Justice

PART IV

Wising Up
CHAPTER 12 | Wiser Kids
CHAPTER 13 | Wiser Universities
CONCLUSION | Wiser Societies

Acknowledgments
Appendix 1: How to Do CBT
Appendix 2: The Chicago Statement on Principles of Free Expression
Notes
References
Index
About the Authors

INTRODUCTION

The Search for Wisdom

T

his is a book about wisdom and its opposite. The book grows out of a
trip that we (Greg and Jon) took to Greece in August of 2016. We had
been writing about some ideas spreading through universities that we
thought were harming students and damaging their prospects for creating
fulfilling lives. These ideas were, in essence, making students less wise. So we
decided to write a book to warn people about these terrible ideas, and we
thought we’d start by going on a quest for wisdom ourselves. We both work
on college campuses; in recent years, we had heard repeated references to the
wisdom of Misoponos, a modern-day oracle who lives in a cave on the north
slope of Mount Olympus, where he continues the ancient rites of the cult of
Koalemos.
We flew to Athens and took a five-hour train ride to Litochoro, a town at
the foot of the mountain. At sunrise the next day, we set off on a trail that
Greeks have used for thousands of years to seek communion with their gods.
We hiked for six hours up a steep and winding path. At noon we came to a
fork in the path where a sign said MISOPONOS, with an arrow pointing to the
right. The main path, off to the left, looked forbidding: it went straight up a
narrow ravine, with an ever-present danger of rockslides.
The path to Misoponos, in contrast, was smooth, level, and easy—a
welcome change. It took us through a pleasant grove of pine and fir trees,
across a strong wooden pedestrian bridge over a deep ravine, and right to the
mouth of a large cave.
Inside the cave we saw a strange scene. Misoponos and his assistants had
installed one of those take-a-number systems that you sometimes find in
sandwich shops, and there was a line of other seekers ahead of us. We took a

number, paid the 100 euro fee to have a private audience with the great man,
performed the mandatory rituals of purification, and waited.
When our turn came, we were ushered into a dimly lit chamber at the
back of the cave, where a small spring of water bubbled out from a rock wall
and splashed down into a large white marble bowl somewhat reminiscent of a
birdbath. Next to the bowl, Misoponos sat in a comfortable chair that
appeared to be a Barcalounger recliner from the 1970s. We had heard that he
spoke English, but we were taken aback when he greeted us in perfect
American English with a hint of Long Island: “Come on in, guys. Tell me
what you seek.”
Jon spoke first: “O Wise Oracle, we have come seeking wisdom. What are
the deepest and greatest of truths?”
Greg thought we should be more specific, so he added, “Actually, we’re
writing a book about wisdom for teenagers, young adults, parents, and
educators, and we were kind of hoping that you could boil down your
insights into some pithy axioms, ideally three of them, which, if followed,
would lead young people to develop wisdom over the course of their lives.”
Misoponos sat silently with his eyes closed for about two minutes. Finally,
he opened his eyes and spoke.
“This fountain is the Spring of Koalemos. Koalemos was a Greek god of
wisdom who is not as well-known today as Athena, who gets far too much
press, in my opinion. But Koalemos has some really good stuff, too, if you ask
me. Which you just did. So let me tell you. I will give you three cups of
wisdom.”
He filled a small alabaster cup from the water bowl and handed it to us.
We both drank from it and handed it back.
“This is the first truth,” he said: “What doesn’t kill you makes you weaker.
So avoid pain, avoid discomfort, avoid all potentially bad experiences.”
Jon was surprised. He had written a book called The Happiness
Hypothesis, which examined ancient wisdom in light of modern psychology.
The book devoted an entire chapter to testing the opposite of the oracle’s
claim, which was most famously stated by Friedrich Nietzsche: “What doesn’t
kill me makes me stronger.”1 Jon thought there must be some mistake.
“Excuse me, Your Holiness,” he said, “but did you really mean to say
‘weaker’? Because I’ve got quotes from many wisdom traditions saying that
pain, setbacks, and even traumatic experiences can make people stronger.”

“Did I say ‘weaker’?” asked Misoponos. “Wait a minute . . . is it weaker or
stronger?” He squeezed his eyes shut as he thought about it, and then opened
his eyes and said, “Yes, I’m right, weaker is what I meant. Bad experiences are
terrible, who would want one? Did you travel all this way to have a bad
experience? Of course not. And pain? So many oracles in these mountains sit
on the ground twelve hours a day, and what does it get them? Circulation
problems and lower-back pain. How much wisdom can you dispense when
you’re thinking about your aches and pains all the time? That’s why I got this
chair twenty years ago. Why shouldn’t I be comfortable?” With clear
irritation in his voice, he added, “Can I finish?”
“I’m sorry,” said Jon meekly.
Misoponos filled the cup again. We drank it. “Second,” he continued:
“Always trust your feelings. Never question them.”
Now it was Greg’s turn to recoil. He had spent years practicing cognitive
behavioral therapy, which is based on exactly the opposite advice: feelings so
often mislead us that you can’t achieve mental health until you learn to
question them and free yourself from some common distortions of reality.
But having learned to control his immediate negative reactions, he bit his
tongue and said nothing.
Misoponos refilled the cup, and we drank again. “Third: Life is a battle
between good people and evil people.”
We looked at each other in disbelief. Greg could no longer keep quiet: “O
Great Oracle of Koalemos,” he began, haltingly, “can you explain that one to
us?”
“Some people are good,” Misoponos said slowly and loudly, as if he
thought we hadn’t heard him, “and some people are bad.” He looked at us
pointedly and took a breath. “There is so much evil in the world. Where does
it come from?” He paused as if expecting us to answer. We were speechless.
“From evil people!” he said, clearly exasperated. “It is up to you and the rest
of the good people in the world to fight them. You must be warriors for virtue
and goodness. You can see how bad and wrong some people are. You must
call them out! Assemble a coalition of the righteous, and shame the evil ones
until they change their ways.”
Jon asked, “But don’t they think the same about us? How can we know
that it is we who are right and they who are wrong?”
Misoponos responded tartly, “Have you learned nothing from me today?

Trust your feelings. Do you feel that you are right? Or do you feel that you are
wrong? I feel that this interview is over. Get out.”
• • • • •
There is no Misoponos,2 and we didn’t really travel to Greece to discover
these three terrible ideas. We didn’t have to. You can find them on college
campuses, in high schools, and in many homes. These untruths are rarely
taught explicitly; rather, they are conveyed to young people by the rules,
practices, and norms that are imposed on them, often with the best of
intentions.
This is a book about three Great Untruths that seem to have spread widely
in recent years:
1. The Untruth of Fragility: What doesn’t kill you makes you weaker.
2. The Untruth of Emotional Reasoning: Always trust your feelings.
3. The Untruth of Us Versus Them: Life is a battle between good people
and evil people.
While many propositions are untrue, in order to be classified as a Great
Untruth, an idea must meet three criteria:
1. It contradicts ancient wisdom (ideas found widely in the wisdom
literatures of many cultures).
2. It contradicts modern psychological research on well-being.
3. It harms the individuals and communities who embrace it.
We will show how these three Great Untruths—and the policies and
political movements that draw on them—are causing problems for young
people, universities, and, more generally, liberal democracies. To name just a
few of these problems: Teen anxiety, depression, and suicide rates have risen
sharply in the last few years. The culture on many college campuses has
become more ideologically uniform, compromising the ability of scholars to
seek truth, and of students to learn from a broad range of thinkers. Extremists
have proliferated on the far right and the far left, provoking one another to

ever deeper levels of hatred. Social media has channeled partisan passions
into the creation of a “callout culture”; anyone can be publicly shamed for
saying something well-intentioned that someone else interprets uncharitably.
New-media platforms and outlets allow citizens to retreat into selfconfirmatory bubbles, where their worst fears about the evils of the other side
can be confirmed and amplified by extremists and cyber trolls intent on
sowing discord and division.
The three Great Untruths have flowered on many college campuses, but
they have their roots in earlier education and childhood experiences, and they
now extend from the campus into the corporate world and the public square,
including national politics. They are also spreading outward from American
universities to universities throughout the English-speaking world.3 These
Great Untruths are bad for everyone. Anyone who cares about young people,
education, or democracy should be concerned about these trends.

The Real Origins of This Book
In May of 2014, we (Greg and Jon) sat down for lunch together in New York
City’s Greenwich Village. We were there to talk about a puzzle that Greg had
been trying to solve for the past year or two. Greg is a First Amendment
lawyer. Since 2001, he has been fighting for academic freedom and freedom
of speech on campus as the head of the Foundation for Individual Rights in
Education (FIRE).4 A nonpartisan, nonprofit organization, FIRE is dedicated
to defending liberty, freedom of speech, due process, and academic freedom
on the country’s college campuses.
Throughout Greg’s career, the calls for campus censorship had generally
come from administrators. Students, on the other hand, had always been the
one group that consistently supported free speech—in fact, demanded it. But
now something was changing; on some campuses, words were increasingly
seen as sources of danger. In the fall of 2013, Greg began hearing about
students asking for “triggering” material to be removed from courses. By the
spring of 2014, The New Republic5 and The New York Times6 were reporting
on this trend. Greg also noticed an intensified push from students for school
administrators to disinvite speakers whose ideas the students found offensive.

When those speakers were not disinvited, students were increasingly using
the “heckler’s veto”—protesting in ways that prevented their fellow students
from attending the talk or from hearing the speaker. Most concerning to
Greg, however, and the reason he wanted to talk to Jon, was the shift in the
justifications for these new reactions to course materials and speakers.
In years past, administrators were motivated to create campus speech
codes in order to curtail what they deemed to be racist or sexist speech.
Increasingly, however, the rationale for speech codes and speaker
disinvitations was becoming medicalized: Students claimed that certain kinds
of speech—and even the content of some books and courses—interfered with
their ability to function. They wanted protection from material that they
believed could jeopardize their mental health by “triggering” them, or making
them “feel unsafe.”
To give one example: Columbia University’s “Core Curriculum” (part of
the general education requirement for all undergraduates at Columbia
College) features a course called Masterpieces of Western Literature and
Philosophy.7 At one point, this included works by Ovid, Homer, Dante,
Augustine, Montaigne, and Woolf. According to the university, the course is
supposed to tackle “the most difficult questions about human experience.”
However, in 2015, four Columbia undergraduates wrote an essay in the
school newspaper arguing that students “need to feel safe in the classroom”
but “many texts in the Western canon” are “wrought with histories and
narratives of exclusion and oppression” and contain “triggering and offensive
material that marginalizes student identities in the classroom.” Some students
said that these texts are so emotionally challenging to read and discuss that
professors should issue “trigger warnings” and provide support for triggered
students.8 (Trigger warnings are verbal or written notifications provided by a
professor to alert students that they are about to encounter potentially
distressing material.) The essay was nuanced and made some important
points about diversifying the literary canon, but is safety versus danger a
helpful framework for discussing reactions to literature? Or might that
framework itself alter a student’s reactions to ancient texts, creating a feeling
of threat and a stress response to what otherwise would have been
experienced merely as discomfort or dislike?
Of course, student activism is nothing new; students have been actively
trying to shape their learning environment for decades, such as when they

joined professors during the “canon wars” of the 1990s (the effort to add
more women and writers of color to the lists of “dead white males” that
dominated reading lists).9 Students in the 1960s and 1970s often tried to keep
speakers off campus or prevent speakers from being heard. For example,
students at several universities protested lectures by Harvard biologist E. O.
Wilson because of his writings about how evolution shaped human behavior
—which some students thought could be used to justify existing gender roles
and inequalities. (A sign advertising one protest urged fellow students to
“bring noisemakers.”10) But those efforts were not driven by health concerns.
Students wanted to block people they thought were espousing evil ideas (as
they do today), but back then, they were not saying that members of the
school community would be harmed by the speaker’s visit or by exposure to
ideas. And they were certainly not asking that professors and administrators
take a more protective attitude toward them by shielding them from the
presence of certain people.
What is new today is the premise that students are fragile. Even those who
are not fragile themselves often believe that others are in danger and therefore
need protection. There is no expectation that students will grow stronger
from their encounters with speech or texts they label “triggering.” (This is the
Untruth of Fragility: What doesn’t kill you makes you weaker.)
To Greg, who had suffered from bouts of depression throughout his life,
this seemed like a terrible approach. In seeking treatment for his depression,
he—along with millions of others around the world—had found that
cognitive behavioral therapy (CBT) was the most effective solution. CBT
teaches you to notice when you are engaging in various “cognitive
distortions,” such as “catastrophizing” (If I fail this quiz, I’ll fail the class and
be kicked out of school, and then I’ll never get a job . . .) and “negative filtering”
(only paying attention to negative feedback instead of noticing praise as well).
These distorted and irrational thought patterns are hallmarks of depression
and anxiety disorders. We are not saying that students are never in real
physical danger, or that their claims about injustice are usually cognitive
distortions. We are saying that even when students are reacting to real
problems, they are more likely than previous generations to engage in
thought patterns that make those problems seem more threatening, which
makes them harder to solve. An important discovery by early CBT
researchers was that if people learn to stop thinking this way, their depression

and anxiety usually subside. For this reason, Greg was troubled when he
noticed that some students’ reactions to speech on college campuses exhibited
exactly the same distortions that he had learned to rebut in his own therapy.
Where had students learned these bad mental habits? Wouldn’t these
cognitive distortions make students more anxious and depressed?
Of course, many things have changed on campus since the 1970s. College
students today are far more diverse. They arrive on campus having faced
varying degrees of bigotry, poverty, trauma, and mental illness. Educators
must account for those differences, reevaluate old assumptions, and strive to
create an inclusive community. But what is the best way to do that? If we are
especially concerned about the students who have faced the most serious
obstacles, should our priority be protecting them from speakers, books, and
ideas that might offend them? Or might such protective measures—however
well-intentioned—backfire and harm those very students?
All students must be prepared for the world they will face after college,
and those who are making the largest jump—the ones most in danger of
feeling like strangers in a strange land—are the ones who must learn fastest
and prepare hardest. The playing field is not level; life is not fair. But college is
quite possibly the best environment on earth in which to come face-to-face
with people and ideas that are potentially offensive or even downright hostile.
It is the ultimate mental gymnasium, full of advanced equipment, skilled
trainers, and therapists standing by, just in case.
Greg worried that if students came to see themselves as fragile, they would
stay away from that gym. If students didn’t build skills and accept friendly
invitations to spar in the practice ring, and if they avoided these opportunities
because well-meaning people convinced them that they’d be harmed by such
training, well, it would be a tragedy for all concerned. Their beliefs about their
own and others’ fragility in the face of ideas they dislike would become selffulfilling prophecies. Not only would students come to believe that they can’t
handle such things, but if they acted on that belief and avoided exposure,
eventually they would become less able to do so. If students succeeded in
creating bubbles of intellectual “safety” in college, they would set themselves
up for even greater anxiety and conflict after graduation, when they will
certainly encounter many more people with more extreme views.
Based on Greg’s personal and professional experience, his theory was this:
Students were beginning to demand protection from speech because they had

unwittingly learned to employ the very cognitive distortions that CBT tries to
correct. Stated simply: Many university students are learning to think in
distorted ways, and this increases their likelihood of becoming fragile, anxious,
and easily hurt.
Greg wanted to discuss this theory with Jon because Jon is a social
psychologist who has written extensively11 about the power of CBT and its
close fit with ancient wisdom. Jon immediately saw the potential in Greg’s
idea. As a professor at New York University’s Stern School of Business, he
had just begun to see the first signs of this new “fragile student model.” His
main research area is moral psychology, and his second book, The Righteous
Mind: Why Good People Are Divided by Politics and Religion, was an effort to
help people understand different moral cultures, or moral “matrices,”
particularly the moral cultures of the political left and right.
The term “matrix,” as Jon used it, comes from the 1984 science fiction
novel Neuromancer, by William Gibson (which was the inspiration for the
later movie The Matrix). Gibson imagined a futuristic, internet-like network
linking everyone together. He called it “the matrix” and referred to it as “a
consensual hallucination.” Jon thought it was a great way to think about
moral cultures. A group creates a consensual moral matrix as individuals
interact with one another, and then they act in ways that may be unintelligible
to outsiders. At the time, it seemed to both of us that a new moral matrix was
forming in some pockets of universities and was destined to grow. (Social
media, of course, is perfectly designed to help “consensual hallucinations”
spread within connected communities at warp speed—on campus and off, on
the left and on the right.)
Jon eagerly agreed to join Greg in his attempt to solve this mystery. We
wrote an article together exploring Greg’s idea and using it to explain a
number of events and trends that had arisen on campus in the previous year
or two. We submitted the article to The Atlantic with the title “Arguing
Towards Misery: How Campuses Teach Cognitive Distortions.” The editor,
Don Peck, liked the article, helped us strengthen the argument, and then gave
it a more succinct and provocative title: “The Coddling of the American
Mind.”
In that article, we argued that many parents, K-12 teachers, professors,
and university administrators have been unknowingly teaching a generation
of students to engage in the mental habits commonly seen in people who

suffer from anxiety and depression. We suggested that students were
beginning to react to words, books, and visiting speakers with fear and anger
because they had been taught to exaggerate danger, use dichotomous (or
binary) thinking, amplify their first emotional responses, and engage in a
number of other cognitive distortions (which we will discuss further
throughout this book). Such thought patterns directly harmed students’
mental health and interfered with their intellectual development—and
sometimes the development of those around them. At some schools, a culture
of defensive self-censorship seemed to be emerging, partly in response to
students who were quick to “call out” or shame others for small things that
they deemed to be insensitive—either to the student doing the calling out or
to members of a group that the student was standing up for. We called this
pattern vindictive protectiveness and argued that such behavior made it more
difficult for all students to have open discussions in which they could practice
the essential skills of critical thinking and civil disagreement.
Our article was published on The Atlantic’s website on August 11, 2015,
and the magazine issue that featured it hit newsstands about a week later. We
were expecting a wave of criticism, but many people both on and off campus
and from across the political spectrum had noticed the trends we described,
and the initial reception of the essay was overwhelmingly positive. Our piece
became one of the five most-viewed articles of all time on The Atlantic’s
website, and President Obama even referred to it in a speech a few weeks
later, when he praised the value of viewpoint diversity and said that students
should not be “coddled and protected from different points of view.”12
By October, we had finished our media appearances related to the article,
and both of us were happy to return to our other work. Little did we know
that the coming months and years were about to turn not only the academic
world but the entire country upside down. Also, in 2016, it became clear that
the Great Untruths and their associated practices were spreading to
universities in the United Kingdom,13 Canada, and Australia.14 So in the fall of
2016, we decided to take another, harder look at the questions we had raised
in the article, and write this book.

Tumultuous Years: 2015–2017

Looking back from early 2018, it’s amazing how much has changed since we
published that article in August of 2015. A powerful movement for racial
justice had already been launched and was gaining strength with each horrific
cell phone video of police killing unarmed black men.15 That fall, protests
over issues of racial justice erupted at dozens of campuses around the
country, beginning at the University of Missouri and Yale. It was a level of
activism not seen on campus in decades.
Meanwhile, during this period, mass killings filled the news. Terrorists
carried out large-scale attacks across Europe and the Middle East.16 In the
United States, fourteen people were killed and more than twenty others
injured in an ISIS-inspired shooting in San Bernardino, California;17 another
ISIS-inspired attack, on a gay nightclub in Orlando, Florida, became the
deadliest mass shooting in U.S. history, with forty-nine people killed,18 and
that number was surpassed just sixteen months later in Las Vegas when a
man with what was essentially a machine gun shot and killed fifty-eight
people and wounded 851 others at an outdoor concert.19
And 2016 became one of the strangest years ever in U.S. presidential
politics when Donald Trump—a candidate with no prior political experience
who had been widely regarded as unelectable because of the many groups of
people he had offended—not only won the Republican primary but won the
election. Millions turned out across the country to protest his inauguration,
cross-partisan hatred surged, and the news cycle came to revolve around the
president’s latest tweet or latest comment about nuclear war.
Attention returned to campus protests in the spring of 2017 as violence
broke out at Middlebury College and—on a scale not seen in decades—at the
University of California, Berkeley, where self-described “anti-fascists” caused
hundreds of thousands of dollars of damage to the campus and the town,
injuring students and others. Six months later, neo-Nazis and Ku Klux
Klansmen marched with torches across the grounds of the University of
Virginia one day before a white nationalist drove his car into a crowd of
counterprotesters, killing one of them and injuring others. The year ended
with the #MeToo movement, as many women began to publicly share their
stories of sexual misconduct and assault, stories that turned out to be
common in professions dominated by powerful men.
In this environment, practically anyone of any age and at any point on the
political spectrum could make the case for being anxious, depressed, or

outraged. Isn’t this a sufficient explanation for the unrest and new demands
for “safety” on campus? Why return to the issues we raised in our original
Atlantic article?

“Coddling” Means “Overprotecting”
We have always been ambivalent about the word “coddling.” We didn’t like
the implication that children today are pampered, spoiled, and lazy, because
that is not accurate. Young people today—at a minimum, those who are
competing for places at selective colleges—are under enormous pressure to
perform academically and to build up a long list of extracurricular
accomplishments. Meanwhile, all teens face new forms of harassment, insult,
and social competition from social media. Their economic prospects are
uncertain in an economy being reshaped by globalization, automation, and
artificial intelligence, and characterized by wage stagnation for most workers.
So most kids don’t have easy, pampered childhoods. But as we’ll show in this
book, adults are doing far more these days to protect children, and their
overreach might be having some negative effects. Dictionary definitions of
“coddle” emphasize this overprotection; for example, “to treat with extreme
or excessive care or kindness.”20 The fault lies with adults and with
institutional practices, hence our subtitle: “How Good Intentions and Bad
Ideas Are Setting Up a Generation for Failure.” That is exactly what this book
is about. We will show how well-intentioned overprotection—from peanut
bans in elementary schools through speech codes on college campuses—may
end up doing more harm than good.
But overprotection is just one part of a larger trend that we call problems
of progress. This term refers to bad consequences produced by otherwise good
social changes. It’s great that our economic system produces an abundance of
food at low prices, but the flip side is an epidemic of obesity. It’s great that we
can connect and communicate with people instantly and for free, but this
hyperconnection may be damaging the mental health of young people. It’s
great that we have refrigerators, antidepressants, air conditioning, hot and
cold running water, and the ability to escape from most of the physical
hardships that were woven into the daily lives of our ancestors back to the

dawn of our species. Comfort and physical safety are boons to humanity, but
they bring some costs, too. We adapt to our new and improved circumstances
and then lower the bar for what we count as intolerable levels of discomfort
and risk. By the standards of our great-grandparents, nearly all of us are
coddled. Each generation tends to see the one after it as weak, whiny, and
lacking in resilience. Those older generations may have a point, even though
these generational changes reflect real and positive progress.
To repeat, we are not saying that the problems facing students, and young
people more generally, are minor or “all in their heads.” We are saying that
what people choose to do in their heads will determine how those real
problems affect them. Our argument is ultimately pragmatic, not moralistic:
Whatever your identity, background, or political ideology, you will be
happier, healthier, stronger, and more likely to succeed in pursuing your own
goals if you do the opposite of what Misoponos advised. That means seeking
out challenges (rather than eliminating or avoiding everything that “feels
unsafe”), freeing yourself from cognitive distortions (rather than always
trusting your initial feelings), and taking a generous view of other people, and
looking for nuance (rather than assuming the worst about people within a
simplistic us-versus-them morality).

What We Will Do in This Book
The story we tell is not simple, and while there are some heroes, there are no
clear villains. Our tale is, rather, a social science detective story in which the
“crime” was committed by a confluence of social trends and forces. Surprising
events began happening on college campuses around 2013 and 2014, and they
became stranger and more frequent between 2015 and 2017. In Part I of the
book, we set the stage. We give you the intellectual tools you’ll need to make
sense of the new culture of “safety” that has swept across many college
campuses since 2013. Those tools include learning to recognize the three
Great Untruths. Along the way, we’ll explain some of the key concepts of
cognitive behavioral therapy, and we’ll show how CBT improves critical
thinking skills while counteracting the effects of the Great Untruths.

In Part II, we show the Great Untruths in action. We examine the “shoutdowns,” intimidation, and occasional violence that are making it more
difficult for universities to fulfill their core missions of education and
research. We explore the newly popular idea that speech is violence, and we
show why thinking this way is bad for students’ mental health. We explore
the sociology of witch hunts and moral panics, including the conditions that
can cause a college to descend into chaos.
In Part III, we try to solve the mystery. Why did things change so rapidly
on many campuses between 2013 and 2017? We identify six explanatory
threads: the rising political polarization and cross-party animosity of U.S.
politics, which has led to rising hate crimes and harassment on campus; rising
levels of teen anxiety and depression, which have made many students more
desirous of protection and more receptive to the Great Untruths; changes in
parenting practices, which have amplified children’s fears even as childhood
becomes increasingly safe; the loss of free play and unsupervised risk-taking,
both of which kids need to become self-governing adults; the growth of
campus bureaucracy and expansion of its protective mission; and an
increasing passion for justice, combined with changing ideas about what
justice requires. These six trends did not influence everyone equally, but they
have all begun to intersect and interact on college campuses in the United
States in the last few years.
Finally, in Part IV, we offer advice. We suggest specific actions that will
help parents and teachers to raise wiser, stronger, more independent children,
and we suggest ways in which professors, administrators, and college students
can improve their universities and adapt them for life in our age of
technology-enhanced outrage.
In 2014, we set out to understand what was happening on U.S. college
campuses, but the story we tell in this book is about far more than that. It’s
the story of our strange and unsettling time, when many institutions are
malfunctioning, trust is declining, and a new generation—the one after the
Millennials—is just beginning to graduate from college and enter the
workforce. Our story ends on a hopeful note. The problems we describe may
be temporary. We believe they are fixable. The arc of history bends toward
progress on most measures of health, prosperity, and freedom,21 but if we can
understand the six explanatory threads and free ourselves from the three
Great Untruths, it may bend a little faster.

PART I

Three Bad Ideas

CHAPTER 1

The Untruth of Fragility: What Doesn’t Kill
You Makes You Weaker
When heaven is about to confer a great responsibility on any man, it will
exercise his mind with suffering, subject his sinews and bones to hard
work, expose his body to hunger, put him to poverty, place obstacles in the
paths of his deeds, so as to stimulate his mind, harden his nature, and
improve wherever he is incompetent.
MENG TZU (MENCIUS), fourth century BCE1

I

n August 2009, Max Haidt, age three, had his first day of preschool in
Charlottesville, Virginia. But before he was allowed to take the first step on
his eighteen-year journey to a college degree, his parents, Jon and Jayne,
had to attend a mandatory orientation session where the rules and procedures
were explained by Max’s teacher. The most important rule, judging by the
time spent discussing it, was: no nuts. Because of the risk to children with
peanut allergies, there was an absolute prohibition on bringing anything
containing nuts into the building. Of course, peanuts are legumes, not nuts,
but some kids have allergies to tree nuts, too, so along with peanuts and
peanut butter, all nuts and nut products were banned. And to be extra safe,
the school also banned anything produced in a factory that processes nuts, so
many kinds of dried fruits and other snacks were prohibited, too.
As the list of prohibited substances grew, and as the clock ticked on, Jon
asked the assembled group of parents what he thought was a helpful question:
“Does anyone here have a child with any kind of nut allergy? If we know
about the kids’ actual allergies, I’m sure we’ll all do everything we can to avoid

risk. But if there’s no kid in the class with such an allergy, then maybe we can
lighten up a bit and instead of banning all those things, just ban peanuts?”
The teacher was visibly annoyed by Jon’s question, and she moved rapidly
to stop any parent from responding. Don’t put anyone on the spot, she said.
Don’t make any parent feel uncomfortable. Regardless of whether anyone in the
class is affected, these are the school’s rules.
You can’t blame the school for being so cautious. Peanut allergies were
rare among American children up until the mid-1990s, when one study found
that only four out of a thousand children under the age of eight had such an
allergy (meaning probably nobody in Max’s entire preschool of about one
hundred kids).2 But by 2008, according to the same survey, using the same
measures, the rate had more than tripled, to fourteen out of a thousand
(meaning probably one or two kids in Max’s school). Nobody knew why
American children were suddenly becoming more allergic to peanuts, but the
logical and compassionate response was obvious: Kids are vulnerable. Protect
them from peanuts, peanut products, and anything that has been in contact
with nuts of any kind. Why not? What’s the harm, other than some
inconvenience to parents preparing lunches?
But it turns out that the harm was severe.3 It was later discovered that
peanut allergies were surging precisely because parents and teachers had
started protecting children from exposure to peanuts back in the 1990s.4 In
February 2015, an authoritative study5 was published. The LEAP (Learning
Early About Peanut Allergy) study was based on the hypothesis that “regular
eating of peanut-containing products, when started during infancy, will elicit
a protective immune response instead of an allergic immune reaction.”6 The
researchers recruited the parents of 640 infants (four to eleven months old)
who were at high risk of developing a peanut allergy because they had severe
eczema or had tested positive for another allergy. The researchers told half the
parents to follow the standard advice for high-risk kids, which was to avoid all
exposure to peanuts and peanut products. The other half were given a supply
of a snack made from peanut butter and puffed corn and were told to give
some to their child at least three times a week. The researchers followed all
the families carefully, and when the children turned five years old, they were
tested for an allergic reaction to peanuts.
The results were stunning. Among the children who had been “protected”
from peanuts, 17% had developed a peanut allergy. In the group that had

been deliberately exposed to peanut products, only 3% had developed an
allergy. As one of the researchers said in an interview, “For decades allergists
have been recommending that young infants avoid consuming allergenic
foods such as peanut to prevent food allergies. Our findings suggest that this
advice was incorrect and may have contributed to the rise in the peanut and
other food allergies.”7
It makes perfect sense. The immune system is a miracle of evolutionary
engineering. It can’t possibly anticipate all the pathogens and parasites a child
will encounter—especially in a mobile and omnivorous species such as ours—
so it is “designed” (by natural selection) to learn rapidly from early
experience. The immune system is a complex adaptive system, which can be
defined as a dynamic system that is able to adapt in and evolve with a
changing environment.8 It requires exposure to a range of foods, bacteria, and
even parasitic worms in order to develop its ability to mount an immune
response to real threats (such as the bacterium that causes strep throat) while
ignoring nonthreats (such as peanut proteins). Vaccination uses the same
logic. Childhood vaccines make us healthier not by reducing threats in the
world (“Ban germs in schools!”) but by exposing children to those threats in
small doses, thereby giving children’s immune systems the opportunity to
learn how to fend off similar threats in the future.
This is the underlying rationale for what is called the hygiene hypothesis,9
the leading explanation for why allergy rates generally go up as countries get
wealthier and cleaner—another example of a problem of progress.
Developmental psychologist Alison Gopnik explains the hypothesis
succinctly and does us the favor of linking it to our mission in this book:
Thanks to hygiene, antibiotics and too little outdoor play, children don’t get
exposed to microbes as they once did. This may lead them to develop
immune systems that overreact to substances that aren’t actually
threatening—causing allergies. In the same way, by shielding children from
every possible risk, we may lead them to react with exaggerated fear to
situations that aren’t risky at all and isolate them from the adult skills that
they will one day have to master [emphasis added].10

This brings us to the oracle’s first Great Untruth, the Untruth of Fragility:
What doesn’t kill you makes you weaker. Of course, Nietzsche’s original

aphorism—“What doesn’t kill me makes me stronger”—is not entirely correct
if taken literally; some things that don’t kill you can still leave you
permanently damaged and diminished. But teaching kids that failures, insults,
and painful experiences will do lasting damage is harmful in and of itself.
Human beings need physical and mental challenges and stressors or we
deteriorate. For example, muscles and joints need stressors to develop
properly. Too much rest causes muscles to atrophy, joints to lose range of
motion, heart and lung function to decline, and blood clots to form. Without
the challenges imposed by gravity, astronauts develop muscle weakness and
joint degeneration.

Antifragility
No one has done a better job of explaining the harm of avoiding stressors,
risks, and small doses of pain than Nassim Nicholas Taleb, the Lebanese-born
statistician, stock trader, and polymath who is now a professor of risk
engineering at New York University. In his 2007 best seller, The Black Swan,
Taleb argued that most of us think about risk in the wrong way. In complex
systems, it is virtually inevitable that unforeseen problems will arise, yet we
persist in trying to calculate risk based on past experiences. Life has a way of
creating completely unexpected events—events Taleb likens to the
appearance of a black swan when, based on your past experience, you
assumed that all swans were white. (Taleb was one of the few who predicted
the global financial crisis of 2008, based on the financial system’s vulnerability
to “black swan” events.)
In his later book Antifragile, Taleb explains how systems and people can
survive the inevitable black swans of life and, like the immune system, grow
stronger in response. Taleb asks us to distinguish three kinds of things. Some,
like china teacups, are fragile: they break easily and cannot heal themselves, so
you must handle them gently and keep them away from toddlers. Other
things are resilient: they can withstand shocks. Parents usually give their
toddlers plastic cups precisely because plastic can survive repeated falls to the
floor, although the cups do not benefit from such falls. But Taleb asks us to
look beyond the overused word “resilience” and recognize that some things

are antifragile. Many of the important systems in our economic and political
life are like our immune systems: they require stressors and challenges in
order to learn, adapt, and grow. Systems that are antifragile become rigid,
weak, and inefficient when nothing challenges them or pushes them to
respond vigorously. He notes that muscles, bones, and children are
antifragile:
Just as spending a month in bed . . . leads to muscle atrophy, complex
systems are weakened, even killed, when deprived of stressors. Much of
our modern, structured, world has been harming us with top-down policies
and contraptions . . . which do precisely this: an insult to the antifragility of
systems. This is the tragedy of modernity: as with neurotically
overprotective parents, those trying to help are often hurting us the most
[emphasis added].11

Taleb opens the book with a poetic image that should speak to all parents.
He notes that wind extinguishes a candle but energizes a fire. He advises us
not to be like candles and not to turn our children into candles: “You want to
be the fire and wish for the wind.”12
The foolishness of overprotection is apparent as soon as you understand
the concept of antifragility. Given that risks and stressors are natural,
unavoidable parts of life, parents and teachers should be helping kids develop
their innate abilities to grow and learn from such experiences. There’s an old
saying: “Prepare the child for the road, not the road for the child.” But these
days, we seem to be doing precisely the opposite: we’re trying to clear away
anything that might upset children, not realizing that in doing so, we’re
repeating the peanut-allergy mistake. If we protect children from various
classes of potentially upsetting experiences, we make it far more likely that
those children will be unable to cope with such events when they leave our
protective umbrella. The modern obsession with protecting young people
from “feeling unsafe” is, we believe, one of the (several) causes of the rapid
rise in rates of adolescent depression, anxiety, and suicide, which we’ll explore
in chapter 7.

The Rise of Safetyism

In the twentieth century, the word “safety” generally meant physical safety. A
great triumph of the late part of that century was that the United States
became physically safer for children. As a result of class action lawsuits,
efforts by investigative journalists and consumer advocates (such as Ralph
Nader and his exposé of the auto industry, Unsafe at Any Speed), and
common sense, dangerous products and practices became less prevalent.
Between 1978 and 1985, all fifty states passed laws making the use of car seats
mandatory for children. Homes and day care centers were
childproofed;choking hazards and sharp objects were removed. As a result,
death rates for children have plummeted.13 This is, of course, a very good
thing, although in some other ways, the focus on physical safety may have
gone too far. (The Alison Gopnik essay quoted above was titled “Should We
Let Toddlers Play With Saws and Knives?”14 Her answer was: maybe.)
But gradually, in the twenty-first century, on some college campuses, the
meaning of “safety” underwent a process of “concept creep” and expanded to
include “emotional safety.” As an example, in 2014, Oberlin College posted
guidelines for faculty, urging them to use trigger warnings to “show students
that you care about their safety.”15 The rest of the memo makes it clear that
what the college was really telling its faculty was: show students that you care
about their feelings. You can see the conflation of safety and feelings in
another part of the memo, which urged faculty to use each student’s preferred
gender pronoun (for example, “zhe” or “they” for students who don’t want to
be referred to as “he” or “she”), not because this was respectful or
appropriately sensitive but because a professor who uses an incorrect
pronoun “prevents or impairs their safety in a classroom.” If students have
been told that they can request gender-neutral pronouns and then a professor
fails to use one, students may be disappointed or upset. But are these students
unsafe? Are students in any danger in the classroom if a professor uses the
wrong pronoun? Professors should indeed be mindful of their students’
feelings, but how might it change Oberlin students—and the nature of class
discussions—when the community is told repeatedly that they should judge
the speech of others in terms of safety and danger?
To understand how an Oberlin administrator could have used the word
“safety,” we turn to an article published in 2016 by the Australian
psychologist Nick Haslam, titled “Concept Creep: Psychology’s Expanding
Concepts of Harm and Pathology.”16 Haslam examined a variety of key

concepts in clinical and social psychology—including abuse, bullying, trauma,
and prejudice—to determine how their usage had changed since the 1980s.
He found that their scope had expanded in two directions: the concepts had
crept “downward,” to apply to less severe situations, and “outward,” to
encompass new but conceptually related phenomena.
Take the word “trauma.” In the early versions of the primary manual of
psychiatry, the Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of Mental Disorders
(DSM),17 psychiatrists used the word “trauma” only to describe a physical
agent causing physical damage, as in the case of what we now call traumatic
brain injury. In the 1980 revision, however, the manual (DSM III) recognized
“post-traumatic stress disorder” as a mental disorder—the first type of
traumatic injury that isn’t physical. PTSD is caused by an extraordinary and
terrifying experience, and the criteria for a traumatic event that warrants a
diagnosis of PTSD were (and are) strict: to qualify, an event would have to
“evoke significant symptoms of distress in almost everyone” and be “outside
the range of usual human experience.”18 The DSM III emphasized that the
event was not based on a subjective standard. It had to be something that
would cause most people to have a severe reaction. War, rape, and torture
were included in this category. Divorce and simple bereavement (as in the
death of a spouse due to natural causes), on the other hand, were not, because
they are normal parts of life, even if unexpected. These experiences are sad
and painful, but pain is not the same thing as trauma. People in these
situations that don’t fall into the “trauma” category might benefit from
counseling, but they generally recover from such losses without any
therapeutic interventions.19 In fact, even most people who do have traumatic
experiences recover completely without intervention.20
By the early 2000s, however, the concept of “trauma” within parts of the
therapeutic community had crept down so far that it included anything
“experienced by an individual as physically or emotionally harmful . . . with
lasting adverse effects on the individual’s functioning and mental, physical,
social, emotional, or spiritual well-being.”21 The subjective experience of
“harm” became definitional in assessing trauma. As a result, the word
“trauma” became much more widely used, not just by mental health
professionals but by their clients and patients—including an increasing
number of college students.
As with trauma, a key change for most of the concepts Haslam examined

was the shift to a subjective standard.22 It was not for anyone else to decide
what counted as trauma, bullying, or abuse; if it felt like that to you, trust your
feelings. If a person reported that an event was traumatic (or bullying or
abusive), his or her subjective assessment was increasingly taken as sufficient
evidence. And if a rapidly growing number of students have been diagnosed
with a mental disorder (as we’ll see in chapter 7), then there is a rapidly
growing need for the campus community to protect them.

Safe Spaces
Few Americans had ever heard of a “safe space” in an academic sense until
March of 2015, when The New York Times published an essay by Judith
Shulevitz about a safe space created by students at Brown University.23 The
students were preparing for an upcoming debate between two feminist
authors, Wendy McElroy and Jessica Valenti, on “rape culture,” the concept
that “prevailing social attitudes have the effect of normalizing or trivializing
sexual assault and abuse.”24 Proponents of the idea, like Valenti, argue that
misogyny is endemic to American culture, and in such a world, sexual assault
is considered a lesser crime. We can all see, especially in the #MeToo era, that
sexual abuse is far too common. But does that make for a rape culture? It
seems an idea worthy of debate.
McElroy disputes the claim that America is a rape culture, and to illustrate
her argument, she contrasts the United States with countries in which rape is
endemic and tolerated. (For example, in parts of Afghanistan, “women are
married against their will, they are murdered for men’s honor, they are raped.
And when they are raped they are arrested for it, and they are shunned by
their family afterward,” she says. “Now that’s a rape culture.”25) McElroy has
firsthand experience of sexual violence: she told the audience at Brown that
she was brutally raped as a teenager, and as an adult she was so badly beaten
by a boyfriend that it left her blind in one eye. She believes it is untrue and
unhelpful to tell American women that they live in a rape culture.
But what if some Brown students believe that America is a rape culture?
Should McElroy be allowed to challenge their belief, or would that challenge
put them in danger? A Brown student explained to Shulevitz: “Bringing in a

speaker like that could serve to invalidate people’s experiences.” It could be
“damaging,” she said.26 The logic seems to be that some Brown students
believe that America is a rape culture, and for some of them, this belief is
based in part on their own lived experience of sexual assault. If, during the
debate, McElroy were to tell them that America is not a rape culture, she
could be taken to be saying that their personal experiences are “invalid” as
grounds for the assertion that America is a rape culture. That could be painful
to hear, but should college students interpret emotional pain as a sign that
they are in danger?
Illustrating concept creep and the expansion of “safety” to include
emotional comfort, the student quoted above, along with other Brown
students, attempted to get McElroy disinvited from the debate in order to
protect her peers from such “damage.”27 That effort failed, but in response,
the president of Brown, Christina Paxson, announced that she disagreed with
McElroy, and that during the debate, the college would hold a competing talk
about rape culture—without debate—so students could hear about how
America is a rape culture without being confronted by different views.28
The competing talk didn’t entirely solve the problem, however. Any
student who chose to attend the main debate could still be “triggered” by the
presence of McElroy on campus and (on the assumption that students are
fragile rather than antifragile) retraumatized. So the student quoted above
worked with other Brown students to create a “safe space” where anyone who
felt triggered could recuperate and get help. The room was equipped with
cookies, coloring books, bubbles, Play-Doh, calming music, pillows, blankets,
and a video of frolicking puppies, as well as students and staff members
purportedly trained to deal with trauma. But the threat wasn’t just the
reactivation of painful personal memories; it was also the threat to students’
beliefs. One student who sought out the safe space put it this way: “I was
feeling bombarded by a lot of viewpoints that really go against my dearly and
closely held beliefs.”29
The general reaction to Shulevitz’s article was incredulity. Many
Americans (and surely many Brown students) could not understand why
college students needed to keep themselves “safe” from ideas. Couldn’t they
do that by simply not going to the talk? But if you understand the fragilestudent model—the belief that many college students are fragile in Taleb’s
sense of the word—then it makes sense that all members of a community

should work together to protect those students from reminders of past
trauma. All members of the Brown community should come together to
demand that the president (or somebody) prevent the threatening speaker
from setting foot on campus. If you see yourself or your fellow students as
candles, you’ll want to make your campus a wind-free zone. If the president
won’t protect the students, then the students must come together to care for
one another, which seems to have been the positive motivation for creating
the safe space.
But young adults are not flickering candle flames. They are antifragile, and
that is true even of victims of violence and those who suffer from PTSD.
Research on “post-traumatic growth” shows that most people report
becoming stronger, or better in some way, after suffering through a traumatic
experience.30 That doesn’t mean we should stop protecting young people
from potential trauma, but it does mean that the culture of safetyism is based
on a fundamental misunderstanding of human nature and of the dynamics of
trauma and recovery. It is vital that people who have survived violence
become habituated to ordinary cues and reminders woven into the fabric of
daily life.31 Avoiding triggers is a symptom of PTSD, not a treatment for it.
According to Richard McNally, the director of clinical training in Harvard’s
Department of Psychology:
Trigger warnings are counter-therapeutic because they encourage
avoidance of reminders of trauma, and avoidance maintains PTSD. Severe
emotional reactions triggered by course material are a signal that students
need to prioritize their mental health and obtain evidence-based, cognitivebehavioral therapies that will help them overcome PTSD. These therapies
involve gradual, systematic exposure to traumatic memories until their
capacity to trigger distress diminishes.32

Cognitive behavioral therapists treat trauma patients by exposing them to
the things they find upsetting (at first in small ways, such as imagining them
or looking at pictures), activating their fear, and helping them habituate
(grow accustomed) to the stimuli. In fact, the reactivation of anxiety is so
important to recovery that some therapists advise their patients to avoid
using antianxiety medication while undertaking exposure therapy.33

For a student who truly suffers from PTSD, appropriate treatment is
necessary. But well-meaning friends and professors who work together to
hide potential reminders of painful experiences, or who repeatedly warn the
student about the possible reminders he or she might encounter, could be
impeding the person’s recovery. A culture that allows the concept of “safety”
to creep so far that it equates emotional discomfort with physical danger is a
culture that encourages people to systematically protect one another from the
very experiences embedded in daily life that they need in order to become
strong and healthy.
This is what we mean when we talk about safetyism. Safety is good, of
course, and keeping others safe from harm is virtuous, but virtues can
become vices when carried to extremes.34 “Safetyism” refers to a culture or
belief system in which safety has become a sacred value, which means that
people become unwilling to make trade-offs demanded by other practical and
moral concerns. “Safety” trumps everything else, no matter how unlikely or
trivial the potential danger. When children are raised in a culture of
safetyism, which teaches them to stay “emotionally safe” while protecting
them from every imaginable danger, it may set up a feedback loop: kids
become more fragile and less resilient, which signals to adults that they need
more protection, which then makes them even more fragile and less resilient.
The end result may be similar to what happened when we tried to keep kids
safe from exposure to peanuts: a widespread backfiring effect in which the
“cure” turns out to be a primary cause of the disease.

iGen and Safetyism
The preoccupation with safetyism is clearest in the generation that began to
enter college around 2013. For many years, sociologists and marketers
assumed that the “Millennial generation” encompassed everyone born
between (roughly) 1982 and 1998 or 2000. But Jean Twenge, a psychologist at
San Diego State University and an authority on intergenerational differences,
has found a surprisingly sharp discontinuity that begins around birth-year
1995. She calls those born in and after 1995 “iGen,” short for “internet
Generation.” (Others use the term “Generation Z.”) Twenge shows that iGen

suffers from far higher rates of anxiety and depression than did Millennials at
the same age—and higher rates of suicide. Something is going on; something
has changed the childhood experience of kids born in the late 1990s. Twenge
focuses on the rapid growth of social media in the years after the iPhone was
introduced, in 2007. By 2011 or so, most teens could check in on their social
media status every few minutes, and many did.
We’ll explore Twenge’s data and arguments in chapter 7. For now, we
simply note two things. First, members of iGen are “obsessed with safety,” as
Twenge puts it, and define safety as including “emotional safety.”35 Their
focus on “emotional safety” leads many of them to believe that, as Twenge
describes, “one should be safe not just from car accidents and sexual assault
but from people who disagree with you.”36
The second point we want to note about iGen is that the campus trends
that led us to write our original Atlantic article—particularly the requests for
safe spaces and trigger warnings—started to spread only when iGen began
arriving on campus, around 2013. The demands for safety and censorship
accelerated rapidly over the next four years as the last of the Millennials
graduated,37 to be replaced by iGen. This is not a book about Millennials;
indeed, Millennials are getting a bad rap these days, as many people
erroneously attribute recent campus trends to them. This is a book about the
very different attitudes toward speech and safety that spread across
universities as the Millennials were leaving. We are not blaming iGen. Rather,
we are proposing that today’s college students were raised by parents and
teachers who had children’s best interests at heart but who often did not give
them the freedom to develop their antifragility.

In Sum
Children, like many other complex adaptive systems, are antifragile.
Their brains require a wide range of inputs from their environments in
order to configure themselves for those environments. Like the
immune system, children must be exposed to challenges and stressors
(within limits, and in age-appropriate ways), or they will fail to mature

into strong and capable adults, able to engage productively with people
and ideas that challenge their beliefs and moral convictions.
Concepts sometimes creep. Concepts like trauma and safety have
expanded so far since the 1980s that they are often employed in ways
that are no longer grounded in legitimate psychological research.
Grossly expanded conceptions of trauma and safety are now used to
justify the overprotection of children of all ages—even college students,
who are sometimes said to need safe spaces and trigger warnings lest
words and ideas put them in danger.
Safetyism is the cult of safety—an obsession with eliminating threats
(both real and imagined) to the point at which people become
unwilling to make reasonable trade-offs demanded by other practical
and moral concerns. Safetyism deprives young people of the
experiences that their antifragile minds need, thereby making them
more fragile, anxious, and prone to seeing themselves as victims.

CHAPTER 2

The Untruth of Emotional Reasoning:
Always Trust Your Feelings
What really frightens and dismays us is not external events themselves,
but the way in which we think about them. It is not things that disturb us,
but our interpretation of their significance.
EPICTETUS, 1st–2nd century1

I

magine that you are a sophomore in college. It’s midwinter, and you’ve
been feeling blue and anxious. You attach no stigma to seeing a
psychotherapist, so you take advantage of the campus counseling services
to see if talking through your issues will help.
You sit down with your new therapist and tell him how you’ve been
feeling lately. He responds, “Oh, wow. People feel very anxious when they’re
in great danger. Do you feel very anxious sometimes?”
This realization that experiencing anxiety means you are in great danger is
making you very anxious right now. You say yes. The therapist answers, “Oh,
no! Then you must be in very great danger.”
You sit in silence for a moment, confused. In your past experience,
therapists have helped you question your fears, not amplify them. The
therapist adds, “Have you experienced anything really nasty or difficult in
your life? Because I should also warn you that experiencing trauma makes
you kind of broken, and you may be that way for the rest of your life.”
He briefly looks up from his notepad. “Now, since we know you are in
grave danger, let’s discuss how you can hide.” As your anxiety mounts, you

realize that you have made a terrible mistake coming to see this therapist.
• • • • •
“Always trust your feelings,” said Misoponos, and that dictum may sound
wise and familiar. You’ve heard versions of it from a variety of sappy novels
and pop psychology gurus. But the second Great Untruth—the Untruth of
Emotional Reasoning—is a direct contradiction of much ancient wisdom. We
opened this chapter with a quotation from the Greek Stoic philosopher
Epictetus, but we could just as easily have quoted Buddha (“Our life is the
creation of our mind”)2 or Shakespeare (“There is nothing either good or bad,
but thinking makes it so”)3 or Milton (“The mind is its own place, and in itself
can make a heaven of hell, a hell of heaven”).4
Or we could have told you the story of Boethius, awaiting execution in the
year 524. Boethius reached the pinnacle of success in the late Roman world—
he had been a senator and scholar who held many high offices—but he
crossed the Ostrogoth king, Theodoric. In The Consolation of Philosophy,
written in his jail cell, he describes his (imaginary) encounter with “Lady
Philosophy,” who visits him one night and conducts what is essentially a
session of cognitive behavioral therapy (CBT). She chides him gently for his
moping, fearfulness, and bitterness at his reversal of fortune, and then she
helps him to reframe his thinking and shut off his negative emotions. She
helps him see that fortune is fickle and he should be grateful that he enjoyed it
for so long. She guides him to reflect on the fact that his wife, children, and
father are all still alive and well, and each one is dearer to him than his own
life. Each exercise helps him see his situation in a new light; each one weakens
the grip of his emotions and prepares him to accept Lady Philosophy’s
ultimate lesson: “Nothing is miserable unless you think it so; and on the other
hand, nothing brings happiness unless you are content with it.”5
Sages in many societies have converged on the insight that feelings are
always compelling, but not always reliable. Often they distort reality, deprive
us of insight, and needlessly damage our relationships. Happiness, maturity,
and even enlightenment require rejecting the Untruth of Emotional
Reasoning and learning instead to question our feelings. The feelings
themselves are real, and sometimes they alert us to truths that our conscious
mind has not noticed, but sometimes they lead us astray.

In The Happiness Hypothesis, Jon drew on Buddha and other sages to offer
the metaphor that the mind is divided into parts that sometimes conflict, like
a small rider sitting on top of a large elephant. The rider represents conscious
or “controlled” processes—the language-based thinking that fills our
conscious minds and that we can control to some degree. The elephant
represents everything else that goes on in our minds, the vast majority of
which is outside of our conscious awareness. These processes can be called
intuitive, unconscious, or “automatic,” referring to the fact that nearly all of
what goes on in our minds is outside of our direct control, although the
results of automatic processes sometimes make their way into consciousness.6
The rider-and-elephant metaphor captures the fact that the rider often
believes he is in control, yet the elephant is vastly stronger, and tends to win
any conflict that arises between the two. Jon reviewed psychological research
to show that the rider generally functions more like the elephant’s servant
than its master, in that the rider is extremely skilled at producing post-hoc
justifications for whatever the elephant does or believes.
Emotional reasoning is the cognitive distortion that occurs whenever the
rider interprets what is happening in ways that are consistent with the
elephant’s reactive emotional state, without investigating what is true. The
rider then acts like a lawyer or press secretary whose job is to rationalize and
justify the elephant’s pre-ordained conclusions, rather than to inquire into—
or even be curious about—what is really true.
Typically, the rider does his job without objection, but the rider has some
ability to talk back to the elephant, particularly if he can learn to speak the
elephant’s language, which is a language of intuition rather than logic. If the
rider can reframe a situation so that the elephant sees it in a new way, then
the elephant will feel new feelings, too, which will then motivate the elephant
to move in a new direction. Boethius illustrated this “talking back” process by
creating “Lady Philosophy” and having her ask the sorts of questions one
learns to ask oneself in CBT. As he answers her questions, Boethius sees his
life in new ways. He feels flashes of love for his family, and gratitude that they
are safe. He changes the ways in which he interprets things, which causes his
emotions to change, which then causes his thinking to change even further.
If you engage in this “talking back” process on a regular basis, it becomes
easier and easier to do. Over time, the rider becomes a more skillful trainer,

and the elephant becomes better trained. The two work together in harmony.
That is the power and promise of CBT.

What Is CBT?
Cognitive behavioral therapy was developed in the 1960s by Aaron Beck, a
psychiatrist at the University of Pennsylvania. At the time, Freudian ideas
dominated psychiatry. Clinicians assumed that depression and the distorted
thinking it produces were just the surface manifestation of deeper problems,
usually stretching back to unresolved childhood conflict. To treat depression,
you had to fix the underlying problem, and that could take many years of
therapy. But Beck saw a close connection between the thoughts a person had
and the feelings that came with them. He noticed that his patients tended to
get themselves caught in a feedback loop in which irrational negative beliefs
caused powerful negative feelings, which in turn seemed to drive patients’
reasoning, motivating them to find evidence to support their negative beliefs.
Beck noticed a common pattern of beliefs, which he called the “cognitive
triad” of depression: “I’m no good,” “My world is bleak,” and “My future is
hopeless.”
Many people experience one or two of these thoughts fleetingly, but
depressed people tend to hold all three beliefs in a stable and enduring
psychological structure. Psychologists call such structures schemas. Schemas
refer to the patterns of thoughts and behaviors, built up over time, that people
use to process information quickly and effortlessly as they interact with the
world. Schemas are deep down in the elephant; they are one of the ways in
which the elephant guides the rider. Depressed people have schemas about
themselves and their paths through life that are thoroughly disempowering.
Beck’s great discovery was that it is possible to break the disempowering
feedback cycle between negative beliefs and negative emotions. If you can get
people to examine these beliefs and consider counterevidence, it gives them at
least some moments of relief from negative emotions, and if you release them
from negative emotions, they become more open to questioning their
negative beliefs. It takes some skill to do this—depressed people are very good
at finding evidence for the beliefs in the triad. And it takes time—a

disempowering schema can’t be disassembled in a single moment of great
insight (which is why insights gained from moments of enlightenment often
fade quickly). But it is possible to train people to learn Beck’s method so they
can question their automatic thoughts on their own, every day. With
repetition, over a period of weeks or months, people can change their
schemas and create different, more helpful habitual beliefs (such as “I can
handle most challenges” or “I have friends I can trust”). With CBT, there is
no need to spend years talking about one’s childhood.
The evidence that CBT works is overwhelming.7 A common finding is
that CBT works about as well as Prozac and similar drugs for relieving the
symptoms of anxiety disorders and mild to moderate depression,8 and it does
so with longer-lasting benefits and without any negative side effects. But CBT
is effective for more than anxiety and depression, including anorexia, bulimia,
obsessive compulsive disorder, anger, marital discord, and stress-related
disorders.9 CBT is easy to do, has been widely used, has been demonstrated to
be effective, and is the best-studied form of psychotherapy.10 It is therefore the
therapy with the strongest evidence that it is both safe and effective.
The list below shows nine of the most common cognitive distortions that
people learn to recognize in CBT. It is these distorted thought patterns that
Greg began to notice on campus, which led him to invite Jon out to lunch,
which led us to write our Atlantic article and, eventually, this book. (Different
CBT experts and practitioners use different lists of cognitive distortions. The
nine in our list are based on a longer list in Robert Leahy, Stephen Holland,
and Lata McGinn’s book, Treatment Plans and Interventions for Depression
and Anxiety Disorders. For more on CBT—how it works, and how to practice
it—please see Appendix 1.)
Letting your feelings guide your interpretation of
reality. “I feel depressed; therefore, my marriage is not working out.”
EMOTIONAL REASONING:

Focusing on the worst possible outcome and seeing it as
most likely. “It would be terrible if I failed.”
CATASTROPHIZING:

Perceiving a global pattern of negatives on the basis of a
single incident. “This generally happens to me. I seem to fail at a lot of
things.”
OVERGENERALIZING:

(also known variously as “black-and-white thinking,”
“all-or-nothing thinking,” and “binary thinking”): Viewing events or
people in all-or-nothing terms. “I get rejected by everyone,” or “It was a
complete waste of time.”
DICHOTOMOUS THINKING

Assuming that you know what people think without having
sufficient evidence of their thoughts. “He thinks I’m a loser.”
MIND READING:

Assigning global negative traits to yourself or others (often in the
service of dichotomous thinking). “I’m undesirable,” or “He’s a rotten
person.”
LABELING:

You focus almost exclusively on the negatives and seldom
notice the positives. “Look at all of the people who don’t like me.”
NEGATIVE FILTERING:

Claiming that the positive things you or others do are
trivial, so that you can maintain a negative judgment. “That’s what wives
are supposed to do—so it doesn’t count when she’s nice to me,” or “Those
successes were easy, so they don’t matter.”
DISCOUNTING POSITIVES:

Focusing on the other person as the source of your negative
feelings; you refuse to take responsibility for changing yourself. “She’s to
blame for the way I feel now,” or “My parents caused all my problems.”11
BLAMING:

As you read through that list of distortions, it’s easy to see how somebody
who habitually thinks in such ways would develop schemas that revolve
around maladaptive core beliefs, which interfere with realistic and adaptive
interpretations of social situations.
Everyone engages in these distortions from time to time, so CBT is useful
for everyone. Wouldn’t our relationships be better if we all did a little less
blaming and dichotomous thinking, and recognized that we usually share
responsibility for conflicts? Wouldn’t our political debates be more
productive if we all did less overgeneralizing and labeling, both of which
make it harder to compromise? We are not suggesting that everybody needs
to find a therapist and start treatment with CBT. Greg’s original realization
about cognitive distortions was that just learning how to recognize them and
rein them in is a good intellectual habit for all of us to cultivate.

Learning about cognitive distortions is especially important on a college
campus. Imagine being in a seminar class in which several of the students
habitually engage in emotional reasoning, overgeneralization, dichotomous
thinking, and simplistic labeling. The task of the professor in this situation is
to gently correct such distortions, all of which interfere with learning—both
for the students engaging in the distortions and for the other students in the
class. For example, if a student is offended by a passage in a novel and makes
a sweeping generalization about the bad motives of authors who share the
demographic characteristics of the offending author, other students might
disagree but be reluctant to say so publicly. In such a case, the professor could
ask a series of questions encouraging the student to ground assertions in
textual evidence and consider alternative interpretations. Over time, a good
college education should improve the critical thinking skills of all students.
There is no universally accepted definition of “critical thinking,” but most
treatments of the concept12 include a commitment to connect one’s claims to
reliable evidence in a proper way—which is the basis of scholarship and is
also the essence of CBT. (Critical thinking is also needed to recognize and
defeat “fake news.”) It is not acceptable for a scholar to say, “You have shown
me convincing evidence that my claim is wrong, but I still feel that my claim
is right, so I’m sticking with it.” When scholars cannot rebut or reconcile
disconfirming evidence, they must drop their claims or else lose the respect of
their colleagues. As scholars challenge one another within a community that
shares norms of evidence and argumentation and that holds one another
accountable for good reasoning, claims get refined, theories gain nuance, and
our understanding of truth advances.
But what would happen if some professors encouraged students to use the
distortions in our list above?

Microaggressions: The Triumph of Impact Over Intent
A prime example of how some professors (and some administrators)
encourage mental habits similar to the cognitive distortions is their
promotion of the concept of “microaggressions,” popularized in a 2007
article13 by Derald Wing Sue, a professor at Columbia University’s Teachers

College. Sue and several colleagues defined microaggressions as “brief and
commonplace daily verbal, behavioral, or environmental indignities, whether
intentional or unintentional, that communicate hostile, derogatory, or
negative racial slights and insults toward people of color.” (The term was first
applied to people of color but is now applied much more broadly.)
Many people from historically marginalized groups continue to face
frequent acts of bias and prejudice. Sometimes people make thinly veiled
bigoted remarks, and in cases where the speaker is expressing hostility or
contempt, it seems appropriate to call it aggression. If the aggressive act is
minor or subtle, then the term “microaggression” seems well suited for the
situation. But aggression is not unintentional or accidental. If you bump into
someone by accident and never meant them any harm, it is not an act of
aggression, although the other person may misperceive it as one.
Unfortunately, when Sue included “unintentional” slights, and when he
defined the slights entirely in terms of the listener’s interpretation, he
encouraged people to make such misperceptions. He encouraged them to
engage in emotional reasoning—to start with their feelings and then justify
those feelings by drawing the conclusion that someone has committed an act
of aggression against them. Those feelings do sometimes point to a correct
inference, and it is important to find out whether an acquaintance feels
hostility or contempt toward you. But it is not a good idea to start by
assuming the worst about people and reading their actions as uncharitably as
possible. This is the distortion known as mind reading; if done habitually and
negatively, it is likely to lead to despair, anxiety, and a network of damaged
relationships.
Sue’s original essay included a number of examples of microaggressions,
some of which imply that a person holds negative stereotypes toward various
groups—for example, a white woman clutching her purse when a black
person passes by; a taxi driver passing by a person of color to pick up a white
passenger; a white person praising a black person for being “articulate.” A
person who has experienced these things repeatedly might be justified in
suspecting that bigotry or negative stereotypes motivated the behaviors.14
However, many of the examples offered by Sue do not necessarily suggest
that the speaker feels hostility or holds negative stereotypes toward any
group. His list of microaggressions includes a white person asking an Asian
American to teach her words in the Asian American’s “native language,” a

white person saying that “America is a melting pot,” and a white person
saying, “I believe the most qualified person should get the job.” These all
hinge on the fact that listeners could choose to interpret the statement or
question in a way that makes them feel insulted or marginalized. Sue explains
that an Asian American could take the language question as an assertion that
“you are a foreigner”; a Latino student could take the “melting pot” comment
as an injunction to “assimilate/acculturate to the dominant culture”; a black
student could interpret the “most qualified person” comment as an implicit
statement that “people of color are given extra unfair advantages because of
their race.”
Yes, one certainly could interpret these everyday questions and comments
in this way, as tiny acts of aggression, rebuke, or exclusion—and sometimes
that is exactly what they are. But there are other ways to interpret these
statements, too. More to the point, should we teach students to interpret these
kinds of things as acts of aggression? If a student feels a flash of offense as the
recipient of such statements, is he better off embracing that feeling and
labeling himself a victim of a microaggression, or is he better off asking
himself if a more charitable interpretation might be warranted by the facts? A
charitable interpretation does not mean that the recipient of the comment
must do nothing; rather, it opens up a range of constructive responses. A
charitable approach might be to say, “I’m guessing you didn’t mean any harm
when you said that, but you should know that some people might interpret
that to mean . . .” This approach would make it easier for students to respond
when they feel hurt, it would transform a victimization story into a story
about one’s own agency, and it would make it far more likely that the
interpersonal exchange would have a positive outcome. We all can be more
thoughtful about our own speech, but it is unjust to treat people as if they are
bigots when they harbor no ill will. Doing so can discourage them from being
receptive to valuable feedback. It may also make them less interested in
engaging with people across lines of difference.15
By Sue’s logic, however, CBT itself can be a microaggression, because it
requires questioning the premises and assumptions that give rise to feelings.
Sue gives the example of a therapist asking a client, “Do you really think your
problem stems from racism?” Depending on the therapist’s intention, such a
question could indeed be improperly dismissive. But if the intention of the
therapist is to help the client talk back to his emotions, search for evidence to

justify interpretations, and find the realistic appraisal of events that will lead
to the most effective functioning in a world full of ambiguities, then the
question may very well be appropriate and constructive. Teaching people to
see more aggression in ambiguous interactions, take more offense, feel more
negative emotions, and avoid questioning their initial interpretations strikes
us as unwise, to say the least. It is also contrary to the usual goals of good
psychotherapy.
Shadi Hamid, a scholar at The Brookings Institution, describes his
approach to dealing with potential microaggressions in an article in The
Atlantic: “As an Arab and a Muslim, I get the questions ‘Where are you
from?’—by which people usually mean ‘Where are you really from?’—and
‘Were you born here?’ quite often. It doesn’t usually occur to me to get
offended.”16 As Hamid notes, “In our identitarian age, the bar for offense has
been lowered considerably, which makes democratic debate more difficult—
citizens are more likely to withhold their true opinions if they fear being
labeled as bigoted or insensitive.”
Hamid’s point has important implications for the challenge of building a
community on a college campus, where we want students to freely engage
with one another rather than keeping their thoughts hidden. Imagine that
you are in charge of new-student orientation at an American university that is
very diverse—there are students from a wide variety of racial groups, ethnic
groups, religions, and socioeconomic backgrounds. There are international
students from Asia, Africa, Europe, and Latin America, some of whom don’t
speak English well; many don’t understand the nuances of English words and
American customs, and as a result, they often choose the wrong word to
express themselves. There are also students on the autism spectrum who have
difficulty picking up on subtle social cues.17
With all this diversity, there will be hundreds of misunderstandings on
your campus each day. The potential for offense-taking is almost unlimited.
How should you prepare these students to engage with one another in the
most productive and beneficial way? Would you give them a day of
microaggression training and encourage them to report microaggressions
whenever they see them? To go along with that training, would you set up a
Bias Response Team—a group of administrators charged with investigating
reports of bias, including microaggressions?18 Or would you rather give all
students advice on how to be polite and avoid giving accidental or thoughtless

offense in a diverse community, along with a day of training in giving one
another the benefit of the doubt and interpreting everyone’s actions in ways
that elicit the least amount of emotional reactivity?
More generally, the microaggression concept19 reveals a crucial moral
change on campus: the shift from “intent” to “impact.” In moral judgment as
it has long been studied by psychologists, intent is essential for assessing
guilt.20 We generally hold people morally responsible for acts that they
intended to commit. If Bob tries to poison Maria and he fails, he has
committed a very serious crime, even though he has made no impact on
Maria. (Bob is still guilty of attempted murder.) Conversely, if Maria
accidentally kills Bob by (consensually) kissing him after eating a peanut
butter sandwich, she has committed no offense if she had no idea he was
deathly allergic to peanuts.
Most people understand concepts related to racism, sexism, homophobia,
and other forms of bigotry in this way—they focus on intent. If, on the basis
of group membership, you dislike people, wish them ill, or intend to do them
harm, you are a bigot, even if you say or do something that inadvertently or
unintentionally helps members of that group. Conversely, if you accidentally
say or do something that a member of a group finds offensive, but harbor no
dislike or ill will on the basis of group membership, then you are not a bigot,
even if you have said something clumsy or insensitive for which an apology is
appropriate. A faux pas does not make someone an evil person or an
aggressor.
However, some activists say that bigotry is only about impact (as they
define impact); intent is not even necessary. If a member of an identity group
feels offended or oppressed by the action of another person, then according to
the impact-versus-intent paradigm, that other person is guilty of an act of
bigotry. As explained in an essay at EverydayFeminism.com, “In the end,
what does the intent of our action really matter if our actions have the impact
of furthering the marginalization or oppression of those around us?”21
It is undeniable that some members of various identity groups encounter
repeated indignities because of their group membership. Even if none of the
offenders harbored a trace of ill will, their clueless or ignorant questions could
become burdensome and hard to tolerate. Comedian and diversity educator
Karith Foster, a black woman who is married to a white man, had a
particularly difficult experience when her husband was taken to the

emergency room after a nearly fatal motorcycle accident. As hospital
personnel asked him about his medical history, he slipped in and out of
consciousness. Foster began to answer for him, but nobody seemed to be
listening to her. “For the first time in my life I felt invisible,” she said. She told
us that a doctor glanced at her indifferently and finally asked—in a detached
tone of voice—what her relationship was to the patient. Then, as they treated
her husband, more members of the all-white staff asked her that same
question with a similar intonation, until finally Foster was on the brink of
tears. “It wasn’t the question,” she told us. “I understand that by law and
hospital protocol it needed to be asked. What was so disconcerting was the
tone I perceived.” She remembers clearly thinking, “Am I seriously having to
deal with this racist bullshit RIGHT NOW? As my husband’s life is on the
line?!” She described what happened next:
I wanted so badly to lose it and scream at the hospital staff: “We’re living in
the twenty-first century! It’s called a mixed-race marriage!” But I knew my
emotions were getting the best of me in this incredibly stressful moment
and were leading me to label the doctors and nurses as racists. I was
assuming that I knew what they were thinking. But that’s not the way I
normally think when I’m not under so much stress. It took everything I had,
but I took a deep breath and practiced the C.A.R.E. model22 that I teach: I
reminded myself that everyone was doing their best to save my husband’s
life, that the stress of the situation might be influencing my interpretations,
and that I needed to keep the lines of communication open. Doing that must
have shifted how I was coming across, because although I don’t remember
acting any differently, it seemed like all of a sudden the doctors began
showing me X-rays and explaining the procedures they were doing. One of
the attendants even went out and bought me a cup of coffee and refused to
let me pay for it. That’s when I had the epiphany that what I had
experienced wasn’t racism. No one was being malicious because I was
black and my spouse was white. But for them to fully comprehend our
relationship, they had to change their default ideas of what a married couple
looks like.23

Foster told us that in dealing with hospital personnel’s insensitivity,
“without taking a step back, I could have made an awful situation a lot
worse.” After the emergency—her husband is doing fine now—Foster made
sure to speak with the hospital administration about the insensitivity and lack

of awareness she and her husband experienced, and the administrative
personnel were receptive and apologetic.
It is crucial to teach incoming students to be thoughtful in their
interactions with one another. A portion of what is derided as “political
correctness” is just an effort to promote polite and respectful interactions by
discouraging the use of terms that are reasonably taken to be demeaning.24
But if you teach students that intention doesn’t matter, and you also
encourage students to find more things offensive (leading them to experience
more negative impacts), and you also tell them that whoever says or does the
things they find offensive are “aggressors” who have committed acts of
bigotry against them, then you are probably fostering feelings of
victimization, anger, and hopelessness in your students. They will come to see
the world—and even their university—as a hostile place where things never
seem to get better.
If someone wanted to create an environment of perpetual anger and
intergroup conflict, this would be an effective way to do it. Teaching students
to use the least generous interpretations possible is likely to engender
precisely the feelings of marginalization and oppression that almost everyone
wants to eliminate. And, to add injury to insult, this sort of environment is
likely to foster an external locus of control. The concept of “locus of control”
goes back to behaviorist days, when psychologists noted that animals
(including people) could be trained to expect that they could get what they
wanted through their own behavior (that is, some control over outcomes was
“internal” to themselves). Conversely, animals could be trained to expect that
nothing they did mattered (that is, all control of outcomes was “external” to
themselves).25 A great deal of research shows that having an internal locus of
control leads to greater health, happiness, effort expended, success in school,
and success at work.26 An internal locus of control has even been found to
make many kinds of adversity less painful.27

Disinvitations and the Ideological Vetting of Speakers
Another way that emotional reasoning manifests itself on college campuses is
through the “disinvitation” of guest speakers. The logic typically used is that if

a speaker makes some students uncomfortable, upset, or angry, then that is
enough to justify banning that speaker from campus entirely because of the
“danger” that the speaker poses to those students. In a typical case,28 students
pressure the organization that issued the invitation, or petition the college
president or relevant deans, demanding that someone rescind the invitation.
The threat is made (sometimes implicitly and sometimes explicitly) that if the
speaker comes to campus, there will be loud, disruptive protests in an
organized effort to stop the talk from taking place. Strategies include blocking
entrances to the building; shouting expletives or “Shame! Shame! Shame!”29 at
anyone who tries to attend; banging loudly on doors and windows from
outside the room; and filling up the auditorium with protesters, who
eventually shout or chant for as long as it takes to prevent the speaker from
speaking.
As the idea that the mere presence of a speaker on campus can be
“dangerous” has spread more widely, efforts to disinvite speakers have
become more common. Greg’s organization, the Foundation for Individual
Rights in Education (FIRE), has been tracking disinvitation attempts going
back to 2000; the FIRE disinvitation database currently contains 379 such
events. About 46% of the attempts were successful: the speaker was disinvited,
or the event was otherwise canceled. Of the events that proceeded, about a
third were disrupted by protesters to some degree. For most of the events, the
disinvitation effort can be clearly categorized as coming from one side of the
political spectrum or the other. As you can see in Figure 2.1, from 2000
through 2009, disinvitation efforts were just as likely to come from the right
as from the left.30 But after 2009, a gap opens up, and then widens beginning
in 2013, right around the time that Greg began noticing things changing on
campus.
Part of this change is because, on some campuses, conservative groups
began inviting more provocateurs, especially Milo Yiannopoulos, a master of
the art of provoking what he calls “mild rage.” Yiannopoulos describes
himself as a “troll” and even named his 2017 speaking tour “Milo’s Troll
Academy Tour.”31 While trolls have, of course, been around for a long time,
the dynamic of troll versus protesters became more common in 2016, and we
have used asterisks in Figure 2.1 to show where the line for the left would
have been had we not included the seventeen Yiannopoulos disinvitations.32
Many of the speakers who faced disinvitation efforts from the left in 2013 and

2014 were serious thinkers and politicians, including conservative political
journalist George Will, and managing director of the International Monetary
Fund Christine Lagarde. Some of them were even clearly left leaning, such as
former Secretary of State Madeleine Albright, comedian Bill Maher, and
former U.S. Attorney General Eric Holder.
Disinvitation Attempts by Year and Source of Criticism

FIGURE 2.1. Disinvitation attempts each year since 2000. Solid line shows efforts

initiated by people and groups on the political left; dashed line shows efforts from the
right. Asterisks show where the solid line would have been had Milo Yiannopoulos
been removed from the dataset. (Source: FIRE.)

Something began changing on many campuses around 2013,33 and the
idea that college students should not be exposed to “offensive” ideas is now a
majority position on campus. In 2017, 58% of college students said it is
“important to be part of a campus community where I am not exposed to
intolerant and offensive ideas.”34 This statement was endorsed by 63% of very
liberal students, but it’s a view that is not confined to the left; almost half of
very conservative students (45%) endorsed that statement, too.
The notion that a university should protect all of its students from ideas
that some of them find offensive is a repudiation of the legacy of Socrates,
who described himself as the “gadfly” of the Athenian people. He thought it

was his job to sting, to disturb, to question, and thereby to provoke his fellow
Athenians to think through their current beliefs, and change the ones they
could not defend.35
It was in this spirit that Zachary Wood, a left-leaning African American
student at Williams College, in Massachusetts, led the “Uncomfortable
Learning” series. Like Socrates, Wood wanted to expose students to ideas that
they would otherwise not encounter, in order to spur them to better thinking.
In October 2015, Wood invited Suzanne Venker,36 a conservative critic of
feminism and an advocate of traditional gender roles, to speak as part of the
series. Wood’s co-organizer, Matthew Hennessy, explained:
We chose [Venker] because millions of Americans think her viewpoints
carry weight, or even agree with her. We think it’s important to get an
understanding of why so many Americans do think these really interesting
and difficult thoughts, so we can challenge them and better understand our
own behaviors and our own thoughts.37

The response from Williams students was so ferocious that ultimately
Wood and Hennessy decided they had to cancel the event. One student wrote
on a Facebook page:
When you bring a misogynistic, white supremacist men’s rights activist to
campus in the name of “dialogue” and “the other side,” you are not only
causing actual mental, social, psychological, and physical harm to students,
but you are also—paying—for the continued dispersal of violent ideologies
that kill our black and brown (trans) femme sisters. . . . Know, you are
dipping your hands in their blood, Zach Wood.38

This response clearly illustrates the cognitive distortions of
catastrophizing, labeling, overgeneralizing, and dichotomous thinking. It is
also a textbook example of emotional reasoning, as Wood himself put it when
explaining the decision to cancel the lecture:
When an individual goes so far as to describe someone as having blood on
their hands for supporting the idea of bringing a highly controversial
speaker to Williams, they are advancing the belief that what offends them

should not be allowed on this campus precisely because it offends them
and people who agree with them.39

Should a student saying “I am offended” be sufficient reason to cancel a
lecture? What if it’s many students? What if members of the faculty are
offended, too?
It depends on what you think is the purpose of education. Hanna Holborn
Gray, the president of the University of Chicago from 1978 to 1993, once
offered this principle: “Education should not be intended to make people
comfortable; it is meant to make them think.”40 This, of course, was Zach
Wood’s belief, too, and Gray’s principle allows us to distinguish the
provocations of Wood and Socrates from the provocations of Yiannopoulos.
Unfortunately, the president of Williams College had a different philosophy,
and personally intervened to cancel a later invitation made to another
controversial speaker.41 In doing so, he implicitly endorsed Misoponos’s
dictum that “uncomfortable learning” is an oxymoron. He might as well have
posted a sign on the entry gates to the college: EDUCATION SHOULD NOT BE
INTENDED TO MAKE PEOPLE THINK; IT IS MEANT TO MAKE THEM COMFORTABLE.

In Sum
Among the most universal psychological insights in the world’s
wisdom traditions is that what really frightens and dismays us is not
external events themselves but the way in which we think about them, as
Epictetus put it.
CBT is a method anyone can learn for identifying common cognitive
distortions and then changing their habitual patterns of thinking. CBT
helps the rider (controlled processing) to train the elephant (automatic
processing), resulting in better critical thinking and mental health.
Emotional reasoning is among the most common of all cognitive
distortions; most people would be happier and more effective if they
did less of it.
The term “microaggressions” refers to a way of thinking about brief
and commonplace indignities and slights communicated to people of

color (and others). Small acts of aggression are real, so the term could
be useful, but because the definition includes accidental and
unintentional offenses, the word “aggression” is misleading. Using the
lens of microaggressions may amplify the pain experienced and the
conflict that ensues. (On the other hand, there is nothing “micro” about
intentional acts of aggression and bigotry.)
By encouraging students to interpret the actions of others in the least
generous way possible, schools that teach students about
microaggressions may be encouraging students to engage in emotional
reasoning and other distortions while setting themselves up for higher
levels of distrust and conflict.
Karith Foster offers an example of using empathy to reappraise actions
that could be interpreted as microaggressions. When she interpreted
those actions as innocent (albeit insensitive) misunderstandings, it led
to a better outcome for everyone.
The number of efforts to “disinvite” speakers from giving talks on
campus has increased in the last few years; such efforts are often
justified by the claim that the speaker in question will cause harm to
students. But discomfort is not danger. Students, professors, and
administrators should understand the concept of antifragility and keep
in mind Hanna Holborn Gray’s principle: “Education should not be
intended to make people comfortable; it is meant to make them think.”

CHAPTER 3

The Untruth of Us Versus Them: Life Is a
Battle Between Good People and Evil
People
There is the moral dualism that sees good and evil as instincts within us
between which we must choose. But there is also what I will call
pathological dualism that sees humanity itself as radically . . . divided into
the unimpeachably good and the irredeemably bad. You are either one or
the other.
RABBI LORD JONATHAN SACKS, Not in God’s Name1

A

protest is always a claim that injustice is being done. When a group
forms to protest together, they jointly construct a narrative about what
is wrong, who is to blame, and what must be done to make things
right. Reality is always more complicated than the narrative, however, and as
a result, people are demonized or lionized—often unfairly. One such case
happened in October 2015 at Claremont McKenna College, near Los Angeles.
A student named Olivia, whose parents emigrated from Mexico to
California before she was born, wrote an essay in a student publication about
her feelings of marginalization and exclusion.2 Olivia noticed that Latinos
were better represented on the blue-collar staff at CMC (including janitors
and gardeners) than among its administrative and professional staff, and she
found this realization painful. She wrote that she felt like she had been
admitted to fill a racial quota. She suggested that there is a standard or typical
person at CMC, and she is not it: “Our campus climate and institutional

culture are primarily grounded in western, white, cisheteronormative upper
to upper-middle class values.” (“Cisheteronormative” describes a society in
which people assume that other people are not transgender and not gay,
unless there is information to the contrary.)3
In response to this essay, which Olivia sent in an email to “CMC Staff,”
Mary Spellman, the dean of students at CMC, sent her a private email two
days later. Here is the entire email:
Olivia—
Thank you for writing and sharing this article with me. We have a lot to
do as a college and community. Would you be willing to talk with me
sometime about these issues? They are important to me and the [dean
of students] staff and we are working on how we can better serve
students, especially those who don’t fit our CMC mold.
I would love to talk with you more.
Best,
Dean Spellman4

What do you think about Dean Spellman’s email? Cruel or kind? Most
readers can probably see that she was showing concern and reaching out with
an offer to listen and help. But Olivia was offended by the dean’s use of the
word “mold.” She seemed to interpret it in the least generous way possible:
that Spellman was implying that Olivia (and other students of color) do not
fit the mold and therefore do not belong at CMC. This was clearly not
Spellman’s intent; Olivia herself had asserted that at CMC, there is a
prototype or pattern of identities that she does not match, and, as Spellman
later explained,5 she used the word “mold” to express her empathy with
Olivia, because it’s a word that other CMC students use in conversations with
her to describe their sense of not fitting in.
Any student who was already feeling like an outsider might well feel a
flash of negativity upon reading the word “mold.” But what should one do
with that flash? There is a principle in philosophy and rhetoric called the
principle of charity, which says that one should interpret other people’s
statements in their best, most reasonable form, not in the worst or most

offensive way possible. Had Olivia been taught to judge people primarily on
their intentions, she could have used the principle of charity in this situation,
as Karith Foster did in the situation described in the previous chapter. If a
student in Olivia’s position was in the habit of questioning her initial
reactions, looking for evidence, and giving people the benefit of the doubt,
that student might get past her initial flash of emotion and avail herself of an
invitation from a dean who wanted to know what she could do to address the
student’s concerns.
That is not what happened. Instead, Olivia posted Spellman’s email on her
Facebook page (about two weeks after receiving it) with the comment, “I just
don’t fit that wonderful CMC mold! Feel free to share.” Her friends did share
the email, and the campus erupted in protest.6 There were marches,
demonstrations, demands given to the president for mandatory diversity
training, and demands that Spellman resign. Two students went on a hunger
strike, vowing that they would not eat until Spellman was gone.7 In one scene,
which you can watch on YouTube, students formed a circle and spent over an
hour airing their grievances—through bullhorns—against Spellman and other
administrators who were there in the circle to listen.8 Spellman apologized for
her email being “poorly worded” and told the crowd that her “intention was
to affirm the feelings and experiences expressed in the article and to provide
support.”9 But the students did not accept her apology. At one point a woman
berated the dean (to cheers from the students) for “falling asleep”10 during the
proceedings, which the woman interpreted as an act of disrespect. But it is
clear from the video of the confrontation that Spellman was not falling asleep;
she was trying to hold back her tears.
The university did not fire Spellman, but neither did its leaders publicly
express any support for her.11 Faced with the escalating anger of students—
amplified by social media and then by national news coverage—Spellman
resigned.12
As this was happening, another conflict over an email was unfolding at
Yale.13 Erika Christakis, a lecturer at the Yale Child Study Center and
associate master of Silliman College (one of Yale’s residential colleges), wrote
an email questioning whether it was appropriate for Yale administrators to
give guidance to students about appropriate and inappropriate Halloween
costumes, as the college dean’s office had done.14 Christakis praised their
“spirit of avoiding hurt and offense,” but she worried that “the growing

tendency to cultivate vulnerability in students carries unacknowledged
costs.”15 She expressed concern about the institutional “exercise of implied
control over college students,” and invited the community to reflect on
whether, as adults, they could set norms for themselves and handle
disagreements interpersonally. “Talk to each other,” she wrote. “Free speech
and the ability to tolerate offense are the hallmarks of a free and open
society.”
The email sparked an angry response from some students, who
interpreted it as an indication that Christakis was in favor of racist
costumes.16 A few days later, a group of roughly 150 students appeared in the
courtyard outside Christakis’s home (within Silliman College), writing
statements in chalk, including “We know where you live.” Erika’s husband,
Nicholas Christakis, was the master of Silliman (a title that has since been
changed to “head of college”). When he came out to the courtyard, students
demanded that he apologize for—and renounce—his wife’s email.17 Nicholas
listened, engaged in dialogue with them, and apologized several times for
causing them pain, but he refused to renounce his wife’s email or the ideas it
espoused.18 Students accused him and Erika of being “racist” and “offensive,”
“stripping people of their humanity,” “creating an unsafe space,” and enabling
“violence.” They swore at him, criticized him for “not listening” and for not
remembering students’ names. They told him not to smile, lean down, or
gesticulate. And they told him they wanted him to lose his job. Eventually, in
a scene that went viral,19 one student screamed at him: “Who the fuck hired
you? You should step down! It is not about creating an intellectual space! It is
not! It’s about creating a home here. . . . You should not sleep at night! You
are disgusting!”20
The next day, the president of the university sent out an email
acknowledging students’ pain and committing to “take actions that will make
us better.”21 He did not mention any support for the Christakises until weeks
after the courtyard incident, by which time attitudes against the couple were
entrenched. Amid ongoing demands that they be fired,22 Erika resigned from
her teaching position,23 Nicholas took a sabbatical from teaching for the rest
of the year, and at the end of the school year, the pair resigned from their
positions in the residential college. Erika later revealed that many professors
were very supportive privately, but were unwilling to defend or support the

Christakises publicly because they thought it was “too risky” and they feared
retribution.24
Why did students react so strongly to the emails from Dean Spellman and
Erika Christakis, both of which were clearly intended to be helpful to
students? Of course, there was a backstory at each school; there were
incidents of racism or other reasons why some students were frustrated with
the administration.25 The protests were not just about the emails. But as far as
we can tell, those backstories don’t involve Spellman or Christakis. So why
did students interpret the emails as offenses so grave that they justified calls
for their authors to be fired? It’s as though some of the students had their own
mental prototype, a schema with two boxes to fill: victim and oppressor.
Everyone is placed into one box or the other.

Groups and Tribes
There’s a famous series of experiments in social psychology called the
minimal group paradigm, pioneered by Polish psychologist Henri Tajfel, who
served in the French Army during World War II and became a prisoner of
war in Germany. Profoundly affected by his experiences as a Jew during that
period in Europe, including having his entire family in Poland murdered by
the Nazis, Tajfel wanted to understand the conditions under which people
would discriminate against members of an outgroup. So in the 1960s he
conducted a series of experiments, each of which began by dividing people
into two groups based on trivial and arbitrary criteria, such as flipping a coin.
For example, in one study, each person first estimated the number of dots on
a page. Irrespective of their estimations, half were told that they had
overestimated the number of dots and were put into a group of
“overestimators.” The other half were sent to the “underestimators” group.
Next, subjects were asked to distribute points or money to all the other
subjects, who were identified only by their group membership. Tajfel found
that no matter how trivial or “minimal” he made the distinctions between the
groups, people tended to distribute whatever was offered in favor of their ingroup members.26

Later studies have used a variety of techniques to reach the same
conclusion.27 Neuroscientist David Eagleman used functional magnetic
resonance imaging (fMRI) to examine the brains of people who were
watching videos of other people’s hands getting pricked by a needle or
touched by a Q-tip. When the hand being pricked by a needle was labeled
with the participant’s own religion, the area of the participant’s brain that
handles pain showed a larger spike of activity than when the hand was labeled
with a different religion. When arbitrary groups were created (such as by
flipping a coin) immediately before the subject entered the MRI machine, and
the hand being pricked was labeled as belonging to the same arbitrary group
as the participant, even though the group hadn’t even existed just moments
earlier, the participant’s brain still showed a larger spike.28 We just don’t feel
as much empathy for those we see as “other.”
The bottom line is that the human mind is prepared for tribalism. Human
evolution is not just the story of individuals competing with other individuals
within each group; it’s also the story of groups competing with other groups
—sometimes violently. We are all descended from people who belonged to
groups that were consistently better at winning that competition. Tribalism is
our evolutionary endowment for banding together to prepare for intergroup
conflict.29 When the “tribe switch”30 is activated, we bind ourselves more
tightly to the group, we embrace and defend the group’s moral matrix, and we
stop thinking for ourselves. A basic principle of moral psychology is that
“morality binds and blinds,”31 which is a useful trick for a group gearing up
for a battle between “us” and “them.” In tribal mode, we seem to go blind to
arguments and information that challenge our team’s narrative. Merging with
the group in this way is deeply pleasurable—as you can see from the
pseudotribal antics that accompany college football games.
But being prepared for tribalism doesn’t mean we have to live in tribal
ways. The human mind contains many evolved cognitive “tools.” We don’t
use all of them all the time; we draw on our toolbox as needed. Local
conditions can turn the tribalism up, down, or off. Any kind of intergroup
conflict (real or perceived) immediately turns tribalism up, making people
highly attentive to signs that reveal which team another person is on. Traitors
are punished, and fraternizing with the enemy is, too. Conditions of peace
and prosperity, in contrast, generally turn down the tribalism.32 People don’t
need to track group membership as vigilantly; they don’t feel pressured to

conform to group expectations as closely. When a community succeeds in
turning down everyone’s tribal circuits, there is more room for individuals to
construct lives of their own choosing; there is more freedom for a creative
mixing of people and ideas.
So what happens to a community such as a college (or, increasingly, a high
school33) when distinctions between groups are not trivial and arbitrary, and
when they are emphasized rather than downplayed? What happens when you
train students to see others—and themselves—as members of distinct groups
defined by race, gender, and other socially significant factors, and you tell
them that those groups are eternally engaged in a zero-sum conflict over
status and resources?

Two Kinds of Identity Politics
“Identity politics” is a contentious term, but its basic meaning is simple.
Jonathan Rauch, a scholar at The Brookings Institution, defines it as “political
mobilization organized around group characteristics such as race, gender,
and sexuality, as opposed to party, ideology, or pecuniary interest.” He notes
that “in America, this sort of mobilization is not new, unusual, unAmerican,
illegitimate, nefarious, or particularly leftwing.”34 Politics is all about groups
forming coalitions to achieve their goals. If cattle ranchers, wine enthusiasts,
or libertarians banding together to promote their interests is normal politics,
then women, African Americans, or gay people banding together is normal
politics, too.
But how identity is mobilized makes an enormous difference—for the
group’s odds of success, for the welfare of the people who join the movement,
and for the country. Identity can be mobilized in ways that emphasize an
overarching common humanity while making the case that some fellow
human beings are denied dignity and rights because they belong to a
particular group, or it can be mobilized in ways that amplify our ancient
tribalism and bind people together in shared hatred of a group that serves as
the unifying common enemy.

COMMON-HUMANITY IDENTITY POLITICS

The Reverend Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr., epitomized what we’ll call
common-humanity identity politics. He was trying to fix a gaping wound—
centuries of racism that had been codified into law in southern states and into
customs, habits, and institutions across the country. It wasn’t enough to be
patient and wait for things to change gradually. The civil rights movement
was a political movement led by African Americans and joined by others.
Together, they engaged in nonviolent protests and civil disobedience,
boycotts, and sophisticated public relations strategies to apply political
pressure on intransigent lawmakers while working to change minds and
hearts in the country at large.
Part of Dr. King’s genius was that he appealed to the shared morals and
identities of Americans by using the unifying languages of religion and
patriotism. He repeatedly used the metaphor of family, referring to people of
all races and religions as “brothers” and “sisters.” He spoke often of the need
for love and forgiveness, hearkening back to the words of Jesus and echoing
ancient wisdom from many cultures: “Love is the only force capable of
transforming an enemy into a friend”35 and “Darkness cannot drive out
darkness; only light can do that. Hate cannot drive out hate; only love can do
that.”36 (Compare King’s words to these from Buddha: “For hate is not
conquered by hate; hate is conquered by love. This is a law eternal.”)37
King’s most famous speech drew on the language and iconography of
what sociologists call the American civil religion.38 Some Americans use
quasi-religious language, frameworks, and narratives to speak about the
country’s founding documents and founding fathers, and King did, too.
“When the architects of our republic wrote the magnificent words of the
Constitution and the Declaration of Independence,” he proclaimed on the
steps of the Lincoln Memorial, “they were signing a promissory note.”39 King
turned the full moral force of the American civil religion toward the goals of
the civil rights movement:
Even though we face the difficulties of today and tomorrow, I still have a
dream. It is a dream deeply rooted in the American dream. I have a dream
that one day this nation will rise up and live out the true meaning of its
creed: “We hold these truths to be self-evident, that all men are created
equal.”40

King’s approach made it clear that his movement would not destroy
America; it would repair and reunite it.41 This inclusive, common-humanity
approach was also explicit in the words of Pauli Murray, a black and queer
Episcopal priest and civil rights activist who, in 1965, at the age of fifty-five,
earned a degree from Yale Law School. Today a residential college at Yale is
named after her.42 In 1945, she wrote:
I intend to destroy segregation by positive and embracing methods. . . .
When my brothers try to draw a circle to exclude me, I shall draw a larger
circle to include them. Where they speak out for the privileges of a puny
group, I shall shout for the rights of all mankind.43

A variant of this ennobling common-humanity approach played a major
role in the movement that won marriage equality for gay people in several
statewide elections in 2012, paving the way for the Supreme Court to rule that
gay marriage would become the law of the land. Some of the most powerful
advertisements of those 2012 campaigns used King’s technique of appealing
to love and shared moral values. If you want to experience the emotion of
moral elevation, just go to YouTube and search for “Mainers United for
Marriage.” You’ll find short clips showing firefighters, Republicans, and
Christians, all appealing to powerful moral principles, including religion and
patriotism, to explain why they want their son/daughter/coworker to be able
to marry the person he or she loves. Here’s the transcript from one such ad,
featuring an Episcopal priest and his wife:44
HUSBAND: Our son Hal led a platoon in Iraq.
WIFE: When he got back he sat us down and said: “Mom, Dad, I’m gay.”
HUSBAND: That took some getting used to, but we love him and we’re proud

of him.
WIFE: Our marriage has been the foundation of our lives for forty-six years.
HUSBAND: We used to think civil unions were enough for gay couples.
WIFE: But marriage is a commitment from the heart. A civil union is no
substitute.
HUSBAND: Our son fought for our freedoms. He should have the freedom to
marry.

This is the way to win hearts, minds, and votes: you must appeal to the
elephant (intuitive and emotional processes) as well as the rider (reasoning).45
King and Murray understood this. Instead of shaming or demonizing their
opponents, they humanized them and then relentlessly appealed to their
humanity.

COMMON-ENEMY IDENTITY POLITICS

The common-humanity form of identity politics can still be found on many
college campuses, but in recent years we’ve seen the rapid rise of a very
different form that is based on an effort to unite and mobilize multiple groups
to fight against a common enemy. It activates a powerful social-psychological
mechanism embodied in an old Bedouin proverb: “I against my brothers. I
and my brothers against my cousins. I and my brothers and my cousins
against the world.”46 Identifying a common enemy is an effective way to
enlarge and motivate your tribe.
Because we are trying to understand what is happening on campus, in
what follows in this chapter, we’ll be focusing on the identity politics of the
campus left. We note, however, that developments on campus are often
influenced by provocations from the right, which we will discuss in chapter 6.
Provocations from the right mostly come from off campus (where the right is
just as committed to identity politics as is the left).
There has never been a more dramatic demonstration of the horrors of
common-enemy identity politics than Adolf Hitler’s use of Jews to unify and
expand his Third Reich. And it is among the most shocking aspects of our
current age that some Americans (and Europeans), mostly young white men,
have openly embraced neo-Nazi ideas and symbols. They and other white
nationalist groups rally around a shared hatred not just of Jews, but also of
blacks, feminists, and “SJWs” (social justice warriors). These right-wing
extremist groups seem not to have played significant roles in campus politics
before 2016, but by 2017 many of them had developed methods of trolling
and online harassment that began to have an influence on campus events, as
we’ll discuss further in chapter 6.
As for the identity politics originating from left-leaning on-campus
sources, here’s a recent example that drew a great deal of attention. In

December 2017, a Latino student at Texas State University wrote an opinion
essay in his school’s student-run, independent newspaper under the headline
YOUR DNA IS AN ABOMINATION.47 The essay began like this:
When I think of all the white people I have ever encountered—whether
they’ve been professors, peers, lovers, friends, police officers, et cetera—
there is perhaps only a dozen I would consider “decent.”

The student then argued that “whiteness” is “a construct used to
perpetuate a system of racist power,” and asserted that “through a constant
ideological struggle in which we aim to deconstruct ‘whiteness’ and
everything attached to it, we will win.” The essay ended with this:
Ontologically speaking, white death will mean liberation for all. . . . Until
then, remember this: I hate you because you shouldn’t exist. You are both
the dominant apparatus on the planet and the void in which all other
cultures, upon meeting you, die.

Right-wing sites interpreted the essay as a call for actual genocide against
white people. The author seems, rather, to have been calling for cultural
genocide: the end of white dominance and the culture of “whiteness” in the
United States. In any case, the backlash was swift and severe and came from
both on campus and off.48 From off campus, the paper received hate mail,
calls for resignations, and even death threats. More than two thousand people
signed a petition to defund the student paper.49 (FIRE defended the
newspaper’s First Amendment rights.) The student editors quickly
apologized,50 retracted the article, and fired the writer. The president of the
university called the essay a “racist opinion column” and said she expected
the student editors to “exercise good judgment in determining the content
that they print.”51
In calling for the dismantling of power structures, the author was using a
set of terms and concepts that are common in some academic departments;
the main line of argumentation fell squarely within the large family of Marxist
approaches to social and political analysis. It’s a set of approaches in which
things are analyzed primarily in terms of power. Groups struggle for power.
Within this paradigm, when power is perceived to be held by one group over

others, there is a moral polarity: the groups seen as powerful are bad, while
the groups seen as oppressed are good. It’s a variant of the pathological
dualism that Rabbi Sacks described in the quotation at the start of this
chapter.
Writing during the nineteenth-century Industrial Revolution, Karl Marx
focused on conflict between economic classes, such as the proletariat (the
working class) and the capitalists (those who own the means of production).
But a Marxist approach can be used to interpret any struggle between groups.
One of the most important Marxist thinkers for understanding developments
on campus today is Herbert Marcuse, a German philosopher and sociologist
who fled the Nazis and became a professor at several American universities.
His writings were influential in the 1960s and 1970s as the American left was
transitioning away from its prior focus on workers versus capital to become
the “New Left,” which focused on civil rights, women’s rights, and other
social movements promoting equality and justice. These movements often
had a left-right dimension to them—progressives wanted progress and
conservatives wanted to conserve the existing order. Marcuse therefore
analyzed the conflict between the left and the right in Marxist terms.
In a 1965 essay titled “Repressive Tolerance,” Marcuse argued that
tolerance and free speech confer benefits on society only under special
conditions that almost never exist: absolute equality. He believed that when
power differentials between groups exist, tolerance only empowers the
already powerful and makes it easier for them to dominate institutions like
education, the media, and most channels of communication. Indiscriminate
tolerance is “repressive,” he argued; it blocks the political agenda and
suppresses the voices of the less powerful.
If indiscriminate tolerance is unfair, then what is needed is a form of
tolerance that discriminates. A truly “liberating tolerance,” claimed Marcuse,
is one that favors the weak and restrains the strong. Who are the weak and the
strong? For Marcuse, writing in 1965, the weak was the political left and the
strong was the political right. Even though the Democrats controlled
Washington at that time, Marcuse associated the right with the business
community, the military, and other vested interests that he saw as wielding
power, hoarding wealth, and working to block social change.52 The left
referred to students, intellectuals, and minorities of all kinds. For Marcuse,
there was no moral equivalence between the two sides. In his view, the right

pushed for war; the left stood for peace; the right was the party of “hate,” the
left the party of “humanity.”53
Someone who accepts this framing—that the right is powerful (and
therefore oppressive) while the left is weak (and therefore oppressed)—might
be receptive to the argument that indiscriminate tolerance is bad. In its place,
liberating tolerance, Marcuse explained, “would mean intolerance against
movements from the Right, and toleration of movements from the Left.”54
Marcuse recognized that what he was advocating seemed to violate both
the spirit of democracy and the liberal tradition of nondiscrimination, but he
argued that when the majority of a society is being repressed, it is justifiable to
use “repression and indoctrination” to allow the “subversive majority” to
achieve the power that it deserves. In a chilling passage that foreshadows
events on some campuses today, Marcuse argued that true democracy might
require denying basic rights to people who advocate for conservative causes,
or for policies he viewed as aggressive or discriminatory, and that true
freedom of thought might require professors to indoctrinate their students:
The ways should not be blocked [by] which a subversive majority could
develop, and if they are blocked by organized repression and indoctrination,
their reopening may require apparently undemocratic means. They would
include the withdrawal of toleration of speech and assembly from groups
and movements which promote aggressive policies, armament, chauvinism,
discrimination on the grounds of race and religion, or which oppose the
extension of public services, social security, medical care, etc. Moreover,
the restoration of freedom of thought may necessitate new and rigid
restrictions on teachings and practices in the educational institutions which,
by their very methods and concepts, serve to enclose the mind within the
established universe of discourse and behavior.55

The end goal of a Marcusean revolution is not equality but a reversal of
power. Marcuse offered this vision in 1965:
It should be evident by now that the exercise of civil rights by those who
don’t have them presupposes the withdrawal of civil rights from those who
prevent their exercise, and that liberation of the Damned of the Earth
presupposes suppression not only of their old but also of their new
masters.56

The student who wrote that essay at Texas State University may not have
read Marcuse directly, yet somehow he ended up with a Marcusean view of
the world. Marcuse was known as the “father” of the New Left; his ideas were
taken up by the generation of students in the 1960s and 1970s who are the
older professors of today, so a Marcusean view is still widely available. But
why does this vision continue to flourish fifty years after the publication of
“Repressive Tolerance,” in a country that has made enormous progress on
extending civil rights to groups that did not have them in 1965, and in an
educational system that cannot be said to be controlled by the right? Even if
Marcuse’s arguments made sense to many people in 1965, can his ideas be
justified on campus today?

Modern Marcuseanism
In the decades after “Repressive Tolerance” was published, a variety of
theories and approaches flourished on campus in humanities and social
science departments that offered ways of analyzing society through the lens of
power relationships among groups. (Examples include deconstructionism,
poststructuralism, postmodernism, and critical theory.) One such theory
deserves special mention, because its ideas and terminology are widely found
in the discourse of today’s campus activists. The approach known as
intersectionality was advanced by Kimberlé Williams Crenshaw, a law
professor at UCLA (and now at Columbia, where she directs the Center on
Intersectionality and Social Policy Studies).57 In a 1989 essay, Crenshaw noted
that a black woman’s experience in America is not captured by the
summation of the black experience and the female experience.58 She made her
point vividly by analyzing a legal case in which black women were victims of
discrimination at General Motors even when the company could show that it
hired plenty of black people (in factory jobs dominated by men) and plenty of
women (in clerical jobs dominated by white people).59 So even though GM
was found not to have discriminated against black people or women, it ended
up hiring hardly any black women. Crenshaw’s important insight was that
you can’t just look at a few big “main effects” of discrimination; you have to

look at interactions, or “intersections.” More generally, as explained in a
recent book by Patricia Hill Collins and Sirma Bilge:
Intersectionality as an analytic tool examines how power relations are
intertwined and mutually constructing. Race, class, gender, sexuality,
dis/ability, ethnicity, nation, religion, and age are categories of analysis,
terms that reference important social divisions. But they are also categories
that gain meaning from power relations of racism, sexism, heterosexism,
and class exploitation.60

Intersectionality is a theory based on several insights that we believe are
valid and useful: power matters, members of groups sometimes act cruelly or
unjustly to preserve their power, and people who are members of multiple
identity groups can face various forms of disadvantage in ways that are often
invisible to others. The point of using the terminology of “intersectionalism,”
as Crenshaw said in her 2016 TED Talk, is that “where there’s no name for a
problem, you can’t see a problem, and when you can’t see a problem, you
pretty much can’t solve it.”61
Our purpose here is not to critique the theory itself; it is, rather, to explore
the effects that certain interpretations of intersectionality may now be having
on college campuses. The human mind is prepared for tribalism, and these
interpretations of intersectionality have the potential to turn tribalism way
up.
These interpretations of intersectionality teach people to see bipolar
dimensions of privilege and oppression as ubiquitous in social interactions.
It’s not just about employment or other opportunities, and it’s not just about
race and gender. Figure 3.1 shows the sort of diagram that is sometimes used
to teach intersectionality. We modeled ours on a figure62 by Kathryn Pauly
Morgan, a professor of philosophy at the University of Toronto. (For
simplicity, we show only seven of her fourteen intersecting axes.) In an essay
describing her approach, Morgan explains that the center point represents a
particular individual living at the “intersection” of many dimensions of power
and privilege; the person might be high or low on any of the axes. She defines
her terms like this: “Privilege involves the power to dominate in systematic
ways. . . . Oppression involves the lived, systematic experience of being
dominated by virtue of one’s position on various particular axes.”63

FIGURE 3.1. Seven intersecting axes of privilege and oppression. According to

intersectionality, each person’s lived experience is shaped by his or her position on
these (and many other) dimensions. (We created this figure as a simpler version of a
figure found in Morgan [1996], p. 107. We left out her axes of gender-typical vs.
deviant, young vs. old, European vs. non-European, credentialed vs. non-literate,
Anglophone vs. English as second language, light vs. dark, and gentile vs. Jew.)

Morgan draws on the writings of French philosopher Michel Foucault to
argue that each of us occupies a point “on each of these axes (at a minimum)
and that this point is simultaneously a locus of our agency, power,
disempowerment, oppression, and resistance. The [endpoints] represent
maximum privilege or extreme oppression with respect to a particular axis.”64
She analyzes how two of those axes, race and gender, interact to structure
schools in ways that privilege the ideas and perspectives of white males. Girls
and women, she claims, are effectively a “colonized population.” They make
up a majority of all students but are forced to live and learn within ideas and
institutions structured by white men.

Morgan is certainly right that it was mostly white males who set up the
educational system and founded nearly all the universities in the United
States. Most of those schools once excluded women and people of color. But
does that mean that women and people of color should think of themselves as
“colonized populations” today? Would doing so empower them, or would it
encourage an external locus of control? Would it make them more or less
likely to engage with their teachers and readings, work hard, and benefit from
their time in school?
More generally, what will happen to the thinking of students who are
trained to see everything in terms of intersecting bipolar axes where one end
of each axis is marked “privilege” and the other is “oppression”? Since
“privilege” is defined as the “power to dominate” and to cause “oppression,”
these axes are inherently moral dimensions. The people on top are bad, and
the people below the line are good. This sort of teaching seems likely to
encode the Untruth of Us Versus Them directly into students’ cognitive
schemas: Life is a battle between good people and evil people. Furthermore,
there is no escaping the conclusion as to who the evil people are. The main
axes of oppression usually point to one intersectional address: straight white
males.
An illustration of this way of thinking happened at Brown University in
November of 2015, when students stormed the president’s office and
presented their list of demands to her and the provost (the chief academic
officer, generally considered the second-highest post).65 At one point in the
video of the confrontation, the provost, a white man, says, “Can we just have
a conversation about—?” but he is interrupted by shouts of “No!” and
students’ finger snaps. One protester offers this explanation for cutting him
off: “The problem they are having is that heterosexual white males have
always dominated the space.” The provost then points out that he himself is
gay. The student stutters a bit but continues on, undeterred by the fact that
Brown University was led by a woman and a gay man: “Well, homosexual . . .
it doesn’t matter . . . white males are at the top of the hierarchy.”
In short, as a result of our long evolution for tribal competition, the
human mind readily does dichotomous, us-versus-them thinking. If we want
to create welcoming, inclusive communities, we should be doing everything
we can to turn down the tribalism and turn up the sense of common
humanity. Instead, some theoretical approaches used in universities today

may be hyperactivating our ancient tribal tendencies, even if that was not the
intention of the professor. Of course, some individuals truly are racist, sexist,
or homophobic, and some institutions are, too, even when the people who
run them mean well, if they end up being less welcoming to members of some
groups. We favor teaching students to recognize a variety of kinds of bigotry
and bias as an essential step toward reducing them. Intersectionality can be
taught skillfully, as Crenshaw does in her TED Talk.66 It can be used to
promote compassion and reveal injustices not previously seen. Yet somehow,
many college students today seem to be adopting a different version of
intersectional thinking and are embracing the Untruth of Us Versus Them.

Why Common-Enemy Identity Politics Is Bad for
Students
Imagine an entire entering class of college freshmen whose orientation
program includes training in the kind of intersectional thinking described
above, along with training in spotting microaggressions. By the end of their
first week on campus, students have learned to score their own and others’
levels of privilege, identify more distinct identity groups, and see more
differences between people.67 They have learned to interpret more words and
social behaviors as acts of aggression. They have learned to associate
aggression, domination, and oppression with privileged groups. They have
learned to focus only on perceived impact and to ignore intent. How might
students at such a school react to the sorts of emails sent by Dean Spellman
and Erika Christakis?68
The combination of common-enemy identity politics and
microaggression training creates an environment highly conducive to the
development of a “call-out culture,” in which students gain prestige for
identifying small offenses committed by members of their community, and
then publicly “calling out” the offenders.69 One gets no points, no credit, for
speaking privately and gently with an offender—in fact, that could be
interpreted as colluding with the enemy. Call-out culture requires an easy way
to reach an audience that can award status to people who shame or punish
alleged offenders. This is one reason social media has been so transformative:

there is always an audience eager to watch people being shamed, particularly
when it is so easy for spectators to join in and pile on.
Life in a call-out culture requires constant vigilance, fear, and selfcensorship. Many in the audience may feel sympathy for the person being
shamed but are afraid to speak up, yielding the false impression that the
audience is unanimous in its condemnation. Here is how a student at Smith
College describes her induction into its call-out culture in the fall of 2014:
During my first days at Smith, I witnessed countless conversations that
consisted of one person telling the other that their opinion was wrong. The
word “offensive” was almost always included in the reasoning. Within a few
short weeks, members of my freshman class had quickly assimilated to this
new way of non-thinking. They could soon detect a politically incorrect view
and call the person out on their “mistake.” I began to voice my opinion less
often to avoid being berated and judged by a community that claims to
represent the free expression of ideas. I learned, along with every other
student, to walk on eggshells for fear that I may say something “offensive.”
That is the social norm here.70

Reports from around the country are remarkably similar: students at
many colleges today are walking on eggshells, afraid of saying the wrong
thing, liking the wrong post, or coming to the defense of someone whom they
know to be innocent, out of fear that they themselves will be called out by a
mob on social media.71 Conor Friedersdorf, who writes about higher
education at The Atlantic, looked into the matter in response to our original
“Coddling” article in 2015. Students told him things like this: “Students get
worked up over the smallest of issues . . . which has led to the disintegration
of school spirit and the fracture of campus.” And this, from another student:
I probably hold back 90 percent of the things that I want to say due to fear
of being called out. . . . People won’t call you out because your opinion is
wrong. People will call you out for literally anything. On Twitter today I came
across someone making fun of a girl who made a video talking about how
much she loved God and how she was praying for everyone. There were
hundreds of comments, rude comments, below the video. It was to the point
that they weren’t even making fun of what she was standing for. They were
picking apart everything. Her eyebrows, the way her mouth moves, her
voice, the way her hair was parted. Ridiculous.72

In this comment, we can begin to see the way that social media amplifies
the cruelty and “virtue signaling” that are recurrent features of call-out
culture. (Virtue signaling refers to the things people say and do to advertise
that they are virtuous. This helps them stay within the good graces of their
team.) Mobs can rob good people of their conscience, particularly when
participants wear masks (in a real mob) or are hiding behind an alias or
avatar (in an online mob). Anonymity fosters deindividuation—the loss of an
individual sense of self—which lessens self-restraint and increases one’s
willingness to go along with the mob.73
The intellectual devastation wrought by this way of thinking can be seen
in a report from Trent Eady, a young Canadian queer activist who escaped
from this mindset in 2014. He then wrote an essay titled “‘Everything Is
Problematic’: My Journey Into the Centre of a Dark Political World, and How
I Escaped.” Eady identifies four features of the culture: dogmatism,
groupthink, a crusader mentality, and anti-intellectualism. Of greatest
relevance to the Untruth of Us Versus Them, he wrote:
Thinking this way quickly divides the world into an ingroup and an outgroup
—believers and heathens, the righteous and the wrong-teous. . . . Every
minor heresy inches you further away from the group. When I was part of
groups like this, everyone was on exactly the same page about a
suspiciously large range of issues. Internal disagreement was rare.74

It is difficult to imagine a culture that is more antithetical to the mission
of a university.75

The Power of Common Humanity Today
Michelle Alexander, in her best-selling book, The New Jim Crow: Mass
Incarceration in the Age of Colorblindness,76 illustrates what happens to the
millions of black men dragged into the criminal justice system—often for
possession or use of small amounts of marijuana. They are released into a
society where they struggle to find jobs, are disqualified from state benefits,

and sometimes face the loss of the right to vote, leading to an “undercaste” in
American society that is in some ways reminiscent of the Jim Crow South.
The book has had a powerful impact on the political left, but the issues it
raises resonate across the political spectrum. In books like Radley Balko’s Rise
of the Warrior Cop: The Militarization of America’s Police Forces77 and FIRE
cofounder Harvey Silverglate’s Three Felonies a Day: How the Feds Target the
Innocent,78 libertarians have expressed opposition to both overpolicing and
the excesses of the war on drugs. The conservative group Right on Crime
opposes overcriminalization, mass incarceration, and the drug war.79 There
are opportunities for real cooperation on serious but potentially solvable
issues.80
For activists seeking reform, the lesson is to find common ground.
Marches and rallies are good for energizing your “team,” but as Columbia
University professor of humanities Mark Lilla points out in his book The
Once and Future Liberal: After Identity Politics, they are not enough to bring
about lasting change. You have to win elections to do that, and to win
elections, you have to draw in very large numbers of people from diverse
groups. Lilla argues that the left did that successfully from the presidency of
Franklin D. Roosevelt through the Great Society era of the 1960s, but then it
took a wrong turn into a new, more divisive, and less successful kind of
politics:
Instead they threw themselves into the movement politics of identity, losing
a sense of what we share as citizens and what binds us as a nation. An
image for Roosevelt liberalism and the unions that supported it was that of
two hands shaking. A recurring image of identity liberalism is that of a prism
refracting a single beam of light into its constituent colors, producing a
rainbow. This says it all.81

Yet appeals to common humanity still work just as well today as when Dr.
King made them. On September 16, 2017, on the National Mall in
Washington, DC, a group of Trump supporters organized a rally they called
“the Mother of All Rallies Patriot Unification Gathering.”82 Counterprotesters
from Black Lives Matter (BLM) showed up and shouted at the Trump
supporters. The Trump supporters shouted back. Someone onstage told the
Trump supporters to pay no attention to the counterprotesters: “They don’t

exist,” he said. Hawk Newsome, the leader of the BLM counterprotesters,
later said that he expected to “stand there with [his] fist in the air in a very
militant way and to exchange insults.” Tensions mounted, and onlookers
recorded video of the potentially explosive situation. Then the Trump rally
organizer, who goes by the name Tommy Gunn, took the stage. “It’s about
freedom of speech,” he said. And in an unexpected move, he invited
Newsome and other BLM supporters onto the stage. “We’re going to give you
two minutes of our platform to put your message out,” Gunn told Newsome.
“Now, whether they disagree or agree with your message is irrelevant. It’s the
fact that you have the right to have the message.”
Newsome took the stage. “I am an American,” he began, and the crowd
cheered. “And the beauty of America is that when you see something broke in
your country, you can mobilize to fix it.” But then, as he spoke about a black
man being killed by police, the crowd began to turn on him. They booed.
“Shut up! That was a criminal!” a woman shouted. Newsome explained, “We
are not anti-cop!” “Yes, you are!” people shouted. “We’re anti–bad cop!”
Newsome insisted. He still seemed to be losing them. “We don’t want
handouts,” he told the crowd. “We don’t want anything that is yours. We
want our God-given right to freedom, liberty, and the pursuit of happiness.”
Now they were coming back around. People cheered. Someone in the crowd
shouted, “All lives matter!” which is usually intended as a rebuke to those
who say that “black lives matter.” But Newsome responded in the tradition of
Pauli Murray, by drawing a larger circle around everyone in the crowd:
“You’re right, my brother, you’re right. You are so right. All lives matter,
right? But when a black life is lost, we get no justice. That is why we say ‘black
lives matter.’ . . . If we really want to make America great, we do it together.”
The crowd cheered and chanted “USA-USA . . .” In an instant, the two
groups were no longer “us” and “them.” Their ideological differences
remained, but within that larger circle around them, their enmity melted
away. And, at least for a short while, they interacted as fellow human beings
and fellow Americans. “It kind of restored my faith,” Newsome said when
interviewed afterward. “Two sides that never listen to each other actually
made progress today.”83 One of the leaders of Bikers for Trump came up to
Newsome afterward and shook his hand. The two men talked and then posed
for a photo together, with Newsome holding the other man’s young son
cradled in his arm.

In Sum
The human mind evolved for living in tribes that engaged in frequent
(and often violent) conflict; our modern-day minds readily divide the
world into “us” and “them,” even on trivial or arbitrary criteria, as
Henri Tajfel’s psychological experiments demonstrated.
Identity politics takes many forms. Some forms, such as that practiced
by Martin Luther King, Jr., and Pauli Murray, can be called commonhumanity identity politics, because its practitioners humanize their
opponents and appeal to their humanity while also applying political
pressure in other ways.
Common-enemy identity politics, on the other hand, tries to unite a
coalition using the psychology embedded in the Bedouin proverb “I
against my brothers. I and my brothers against my cousins. I and my
brothers and my cousins against the world.” It is used on the far right
as well as the far left.
Intersectionality is a popular intellectual framework on campuses
today; certain versions of it teach students to see multiple axes of
privilege and oppression that intersect. While there are merits to the
theory, the way it is interpreted and practiced on campus can
sometimes amplify tribal thinking and encourage students to endorse
the Untruth of Us Versus Them: Life is a battle between good people
and evil people.
Common-enemy identity politics, when combined with
microaggression theory, produces a call-out culture in which almost
anything one says or does could result in a public shaming. This can
engender a sense of “walking on eggshells,” and it teaches students
habits of self-censorship. Call-out cultures are detrimental to students’
education and bad for their mental health. Call-out cultures and usversus-them thinking are incompatible with the educational and
research missions of universities, which require free inquiry, dissent,
evidence-based argument, and intellectual honesty.

This concludes Part I of this book. In these three chapters, we presented
three really bad ideas and showed how each one meets the three criteria for
being called a Great Untruth, which we laid out in the introductory chapter: it
contradicts ancient wisdom, it contradicts modern psychological research on
flourishing, and it harms the individuals and communities that embrace it. In
Part II, we’ll examine some dramatic recent events on campus that have been
incomprehensible to many outside observers. We’ll show that these events
become much more intelligible once you understand the three Great
Untruths and their effects on individuals and on groups.

PART II

Bad Ideas in Action

CHAPTER 4

Intimidation and Violence
When we dehumanise and demonise our opponents, we abandon the
possibility of peacefully resolving our differences, and seek to justify
violence against them.
NELSON MANDELA1

O

n the night of February 1, 2017, the University of California’s
Berkeley campus exploded into violence. An estimated 1,500
protesters surrounded the building where Milo Yiannopoulos, a
young, British, gay Trump supporter, was scheduled to speak. Yiannopoulos
was formerly an editor at Breitbart News, a principal outlet of the “alt-right”
movement that had come to national prominence during the previous year’s
presidential campaign. He had been banned from Twitter the summer before
when Twitter concluded that he had violated its policy regarding “inciting or
engaging in the targeted abuse or harassment of others.”2 Yiannopoulos was a
skilled provocateur—a master of the art of triggering outrage and then using
that outrage to embarrass his opponents and advance his goals.3
The protesters’ goal was to prevent the speech from happening. Many of
them came from local radical anarchist groups that call themselves
“antifascists,” or “Antifa.”4 UC Berkeley officials claimed5 that only about 150
of the protesters were responsible for the vandalism and violence that ensued
—knocking down a light generator;6 shooting commercial-grade fireworks7
into buildings8 and at police officers;9 smashing ATMs;10 setting fires;11
dismantling barricades12 and using them (as well as bats)13 to break windows;
throwing rocks at police officers;14 and even hurling Molotov cocktails.15 The

property damage (exceeding $500,000 for the university and town
combined)16 was less chilling, however, than the physical attacks on students
and others who attempted to attend the speech.
One man carrying a sign saying “The First Amendment is for everyone”
was hit in the face, leaving him bloody.17 Others also suffered bloodying blows
to the face and head as protesters attacked with fists, pipes, sticks, and poles.18
Recorded on video, a young woman sporting a red MAKE BITCOIN GREAT AGAIN
baseball cap told a reporter, “I’m looking to make a statement by just being
here, and I think the protesters are doing the same. Props to the ones who are
doing it non-violently, but I think that’s a very rare thing indeed.” As she
turned, the camera caught a black-gloved hand pepper-spraying her in the
face.19
Masked Antifa protesters clad in black used flagpoles to batter a woman
and her husband as they were pinned against metal barriers, unable to get
away. The woman, Katrina Redelsheimer, was clubbed on the head, and her
husband, John Jennings, was struck in the temple and began to bleed.
Immediately afterward, other protesters blinded the couple and three of their
friends by spraying them in the eyes with mace. As the friends cried for help,
protesters punched them and hit them in the head with sticks, until onlookers
pulled the victims over the barricades. Meanwhile, five or six protesters
dragged Jennings a few feet away, where they kicked and beat him until
bystanders pulled attackers off him as he lost consciousness.20 The police,
according to Redelsheimer, had by this point barricaded themselves inside a
building, refusing people entrance—which she learned when someone tried
to help her get into the building to rinse her eyes and the police turned them
away.21 Meanwhile, Pranav Jandhyala, a UC Berkeley student journalist and
self-described “moderate liberal,” who used his cell phone to record events as
they unfolded, was attacked by protesters, who tried to take his phone.22
When he fled, they chased him, punching him in the head, beating him with
sticks, and calling him a “neo-Nazi.”23
The mob got its way. The speech was canceled. Police issued a “shelter-inplace” campus lockdown order24 and escorted Yiannopoulos to an
undisclosed location.25
This all happened just ten days after Donald Trump’s inauguration as
president. Tensions across the country were high, and the president’s
inaugural address and first executive orders (among them, to close the

borders to people from seven Muslim-majority countries)26 did little to calm
them. The fact that some Berkeley students and residents reacted strongly to
an anticipated speech by a pro-Trump provocateur does not prove that they
are closed-minded or fearful of every idea they don’t like. But it’s important
to take a close look at the February 1 riots at UC Berkeley, because they
marked a turning point—an escalation of conflicts over campus speakers.
Berkeley and its aftermath were the start of a new and more dangerous era.
Since then, many students on the left have become increasingly receptive to
the idea that violence is sometimes justified as a response to speech they
believe is “hateful.” At the same time, many students on the right have
become increasingly eager to invite speakers that are likely to provoke a
reaction from the left.
Some early reports claimed that the violent, mask-wearing “black bloc”
protesters were outside agitators, not students from UC Berkeley.27 It is
impossible to know how many Berkeley students took part, because the
university never undertook a public investigation into the riots to determine
precisely who the black bloc protesters were. One UC Berkeley employee
bragged on social media about beating Jennings—even posting a photo of
Jennings unconscious on the ground—and several Berkeley students admitted
that they had participated.28 One student who wrote about having joined
Antifa explained in an op-ed that “black bloc tactics” (dressing in black,
wearing black gloves, and masking faces) were used that night “to protect the
identities of the individuals in the bloc,” and asserted that “behind those
bandanas and black T-shirts were the faces of your fellow UC Berkeley
[students].”
The failure of UC Berkeley to openly discipline any of the students who
engaged in violence or vandalism during the mayhem29—even those who
publicly admitted participating—and the fact that the police arrested just one
person that night (for failure to disperse)30 seems to have taught the protesters
an important lesson: Violence works. Unsurprisingly, the Antifa activists built
on their success by threatening more violence in response to campus
invitations to conservatives David Horowitz, Ann Coulter, and Ben Shapiro.31
The “Milo riot” at UC Berkeley caught the attention of the national and
international media, not only because of its scale but because of its
symbolism. This was, after all, the very place where the campus free speech
movement started. In 1964, when left-leaning students demanded the right to

advocate for political causes and hear controversial political speakers,
Berkeley student Mario Savio, the leader of the movement, famously spoke of
freedom of speech as “something that represents the very dignity of what a
human being is.”32 Savio had marched with the civil rights movement in
Mississippi the summer before, and, inspired by the power of their peaceful
tactics, he began working for the Student Nonviolent Coordinating
Committee when he returned to campus. It was that activity that first brought
him into conflict with university authorities, leading up to his impassioned
activism for free speech.33 The fact that in 2017, Berkeley students were
protesting to shut down a speech—and even using vandalism and violence to
do it—seemed ironic to many observers. Particularly troubling were the ways
in which some Berkeley students justified the violence.

Words Are Violence; Violence Is Safety
A few days after the riot, The Daily Californian, UC Berkeley’s leading
student newspaper, ran five op-eds under the headline VIOLENCE AS SELFDEFENSE,34 all of which offer examples of the Great Untruths and illustrate the
cognitive distortions we described in chapter 2.
Here’s one excerpt from an essay titled “Condemning Protesters Same as
Condoning Hate Speech”:
If you condemn the actions that shut down Yiannopoulos’ literal hate
speech, you condone his presence, his actions and his ideas; you care
more about broken windows than broken bodies. I can’t impeach Trump,
and I can’t stop the alt-right from recruiting nationwide. I can only fight tooth
and nail for the right to exist in my hometown. So it’s time for those waiting
in the center to pick a side.35

Taken at face value, the author seems to be engaging in a number of
cognitive distortions. The most evident is catastrophizing: If Milo
Yiannopoulos is allowed to speak, there will be “broken bodies” on our side. I
might lose my “right to exist.” Therefore, violence is justified, because it is
self-defense. The author also engages in dichotomous thinking: If you

condemn my side’s violence, that means you condone Yiannopoulos’s ideas.
You must “pick a side.” You’re either with us or against us. Life is a battle
between good people and evil people, and if you disagree with us, you’re one
of the evil people.
The other essays are similar in appearing to employ multiple cognitive
distortions to justify physical violence as a reasonable way to prevent a
speech. Some of the essays offer Orwellian inversions of common English
words. For example, from another essay: “Asking people to maintain peaceful
dialogue with those who legitimately do not think their lives matter is a
violent act.”36
A bit of background is needed here. Weeks earlier, at another college,
Yiannopoulos had displayed the name and photo of a trans woman in order
to mock her.37 In advance of the Berkeley event, rumors had circulated that
Yiannopoulos planned to identify Berkeley students who were undocumented
immigrants. He denied the allegation, the protesters offered no evidence for
it, and it’s not clear how shutting down his talk on campus would have
stopped him from revealing those names if that had been his intention. (He
could have easily disseminated the information on the internet.) Nonetheless,
you can see why people might think that calls for peaceful dialogue with
Yiannopoulos are misguided or counterproductive. It is not irrational, in our
nasty political climate, to worry that some of the things he might say could
lead to online harassment or even physical harm to innocent people.
But if asking for peaceful dialogue is violent, then it seems that the word
“violence” is taking on new meanings for some students. This is another
example of concept creep. In just the last few years, the word “violence” has
expanded on campus and in some radical political communities beyond
campus to cover a multitude of nonviolent actions, including speech that this
political faction claims will have a negative impact on members of protected
identity groups.
Outside of cultures of safetyism, the word “violence” refers to physical
violence. The word is sometimes used metaphorically (as in “I violently
disagree”), but few of us, including those who claim that speech is violence,
have any difficulty understanding the statement “We should reduce
incarceration for nonviolent offenses.” However, now that some students,
professors, and activists are labeling their opponents’ words as violence, they
give themselves permission to engage in ideologically motivated physical

violence. The rationale, as an essay in the Berkeley op-ed series argued, is that
physically violent actions, if used to shut down speech that is deemed hateful,
are “not acts of violence” but, rather, “acts of self defense.”38
This is not an uncommon view on many campuses. Almost one in five
students surveyed in a 2017 Brookings Institution study agreed that using
violence to prevent a speaker from speaking was sometimes “acceptable.”39
While some critics challenged the sampling used in that study, findings in a
second study by McLaughlin and Associates were similar; 30% of
undergraduate students surveyed agreed with this statement: “If someone is
using hate speech or making racially charged comments, physical violence
can be justified to prevent this person from espousing their hateful views.”40
If that sounds reasonable to you, just think about what the statement
implies after concept creep and emotional reasoning expand the meaning of
“hate speech” and “racially charged.” In a call-out culture, almost anything
that is interpreted by anyone as having a negative impact on vulnerable
members of the community—regardless of intent—can be called hate speech.
The Columbia University linguist John McWhorter describes how the term
“white supremacist” is now used in an “utterly athletic, recreational” way, as a
“battering ram” to attack anyone who departs from the party line.41
McWhorter himself (who is African American) has been called a white
supremacist for questioning received wisdom on matters related to race.42 But
if some students now think it’s OK to punch a fascist or white supremacist,43
and if anyone who disagrees with them can be labeled a fascist or white
supremacist, well, you can see how this rhetorical move might make people
hesitant to voice dissenting views on campus.44

Violence and Intimidation After Berkeley
It’s hard to know whether the events at Berkeley played a causal role in later
instances of violence on campus, but the spring semester of 2017 saw an
increase in politically motivated violence, vandalism, and intimidation, all of
which was justified by moral arguments about violence and safety, with the
goal of shutting down speakers on campus. One of the most widely covered
events occurred on March 2 in Vermont, at Middlebury College. Charles

Murray, a libertarian scholar affiliated with the conservative think tank the
American Enterprise Institute, was invited by a student group to speak about
his 2012 book, Coming Apart. The college’s Political Science Department
cosponsored the talk. The book is about one of the most important and
widely discussed topics of 2017: the social and economic dysfunction of the
white working class, which (according to many commentators) made voters
in that group respond more enthusiastically to the anti-immigrant and
protectionist messages of Donald Trump.45 But in a previous book, published
in 1994 (The Bell Curve), Murray and his coauthor, Richard Herrnstein,
proposed that differences in average IQ scores found across racial groups may
not be caused entirely by environmental factors; genetic differences may play
a role, too.46 Some Middlebury students and professors maintained that
anyone who makes such a claim is a white supremacist, and they came
together to demand that Murray’s talk about his later book be canceled.47
When the disinvitation effort failed, a large number of students attended
Murray’s talk just to shut it down by chanting in unison and shouting over
his attempts to speak. College administrators had anticipated this possibility,
so Murray and Allison Stanger, a political science professor who had agreed
to question Murray after his talk, were moved to a different room so he could
deliver his talk via livestream, behind a locked door. But students soon
discovered where they were and continued to try to stop Murray from
speaking by pounding on the walls and pulling fire alarms in the building.
When the livestream ended, as Murray and Professor Stanger left the
building, they were swarmed by protesters. One shoved Stanger; another
grabbed her hair and pulled with such force that she suffered a concussion
and a whiplash injury.48 As Murray and Stanger attempted to flee campus by
car, protesters, some of them masked, pounded on the car, rocked it back and
forth, and jumped onto the hood.49 Someone threw a large traffic sign in front
of their car to prevent them from leaving, but public safety officials cleared a
path, and the car eventually drove off to a dinner with selected students and
faculty.50 The protesters, however, somehow discovered where the group had
gathered for dinner, so the Middlebury administrators quickly moved the
group to yet another location, this time miles from campus.51
After dinner, Professor Stanger went to the hospital, where her injuries
were diagnosed. She required physical therapy for the next six months.52
Stanger later described her experience in a New York Times essay. “What

alarmed me most,” she wrote, “was what I saw in the eyes of the crowd. Those
who wanted the event to take place made eye contact with me. Those intent
on disrupting it steadfastly refused to do so. They couldn’t look at me directly,
because if they had, they would have seen another human being.”53
Just one month later, at Claremont McKenna College, near Los Angeles,
about 250 students54 prevented fellow students from attending a speech by
journalist, attorney, and social commentator Heather Mac Donald.55 In her
2016 book, The War on Cops, Mac Donald argued that Black Lives Matter
protests made the police more hesitant to enter and actively engage in
minority neighborhoods, thereby leaving the people in those neighborhoods
less protected and more vulnerable to crime. Her theory had been the subject
of lively national debate. As Neil Gross, a left-leaning sociologist, wrote in
The New York Times: “There is now some evidence that when all eyes are on
police misconduct, crime may edge up. Progressives should acknowledge that
this idea isn’t far-fetched.”56 But for some students, allowing Mac Donald to
present her thesis would be allowing “violence” on campus, so she had to be
stopped. These students mobilized with a call on Facebook to “show up
wearing black” and “bring your comrades, because we’re shutting this
down.”57 Protesting students prevented anyone from entering the building to
hear the talk, which Mac Donald gave via livestream as protesters pounded on
the clear glass wall of the nearly empty ground-level lecture hall. Mac Donald
was later evacuated from the building through a kitchen door and into a
waiting police car.
After the event, the president of Pomona College58 (part of the Claremont
consortium of five colleges) wrote a statement in defense of academic
freedom and Mac Donald’s right to speak on campus. In response to his
letter, three Pomona students wrote a letter, signed by twenty-four other
students, explaining why Mac Donald should not be allowed to speak. As at
Berkeley, the students asserted that the speech itself was a form of violence:
“Engaging with her, a white supremacist fascist supporter of the police state,
is a form of violence.”
The letter exemplified the dichotomous thinking of the Untruth of Us
Versus Them:
Either you support students of marginalized identities, particularly Black
students, or leave us to protect and organize for our communities without

the impositions of your patronization, without your binary respectability
politics, and without your monolithic perceptions of protest and organizing.59

The students continued: “If engaged, Heather Mac Donald would not be
debating on mere difference of opinion, but the right of Black people to
exist.” This sentence includes fortune-telling, as the students predict what Mac
Donald would say. It also includes a rhetorical flourish that became common
in 2017: the assertion that a speaker will “deny” people from certain identity
groups “the right to exist.”60 This thinking is a form of catastrophizing, in that
it inflates the horrors of a speaker’s words far beyond what the speaker might
actually say. The students also called Mac Donald “a fascist, a white
supremacist, a warhawk, a transphobe, a queerphobe, [and] a classist.” This is
labeling running wild—a list of serious accusations made without supporting
evidence.61
Where did college students learn to think this way? We don’t know what
courses they took at Pomona, or whether they thought this way before they
arrived on campus, but the letter overall shows the influence of the commonenemy identity politics we described in chapter 3, and it makes extensive use
of the language of intersectionality. For example, the students end their letter
with a demand that the president must send an email
to the entire student body, faculty, and staff by Thursday, April 20, 2017,
apologizing for the previous patronizing statement [his defense of academic
freedom], enforcing that Pomona College does not tolerate hate speech
and speech that projects violence onto the bodies of its marginalized
students and oppressed peoples, especially Black students who straddle
the intersection of marginalized identities.

As we saw in chapter 3, this kind of identity politics amplifies the human
proclivity for us-versus-them thinking. It prepares students for battle, not for
learning.

Violence in Charlottesville

The events at Berkeley, Middlebury, and Claremont McKenna were, in a
sense, shocks from the left, which angered and radicalized some conservatives
on and off campus. But there was also a continuing series of shocks from the
right, which angered and radicalized the left, giving us a year of rapidly
escalating mutual outrage. The most shocking event of all occurred in
Charlottesville, Virginia. On the night of August 11, 2017, members of the
self-described alt-right, including many neo-Nazis and Ku Klux Klansmen,
marched across the fabled grounds of the University of Virginia, carrying Tiki
torches and chanting neo-Nazi and white supremacist slogans, including
“Jews will not replace us.” If you are looking for examples of common-enemy
identity politics, it doesn’t get any clearer than this.
The next day, the racist mob marched through downtown Charlottesville,
carrying swastika flags while making a pilgrimage to a statue of Robert E. Lee,
the commander of the Confederate Army in the American Civil War. During
the march, six of the alt-right marchers beat a black man with metal pipes and
poles, causing broken bones, lacerations, internal injuries, and a concussion.62
The marchers also violently clashed with Antifa counterprotesters.63 And a
white supremacist who idolized Adolf Hitler64 stopped his car in front of a
group of counterprotesters, backed up, and then sped forward, slamming into
them, sending people into the air, badly injuring at least nineteen peaceful
counterprotesters, and killing thirty-two-year-old Heather Heyer, a paralegal
described by friends as “a passionate advocate for the disenfranchised who
was often moved to tears by the world’s injustices.”65 Her mother said that she
began receiving threats in the aftermath of Heyer’s death, and as a result, her
grave is in a secret location to protect it from being desecrated by neo-Nazis.66
The sight of Nazi flags and the murder of Heyer profoundly shook an
already divided nation. It was a moment that brought together many
Republicans and Democrats in leadership positions in a forceful denunciation
of the white supremacists and neo-Nazis. Yet one voice was conspicuously
absent from the conversation: President Trump’s. The president had by that
time demonstrated a willingness to condemn many people harshly and
promptly, yet he was restrained and slow in his criticism of the white
supremacist marchers in Charlottesville. On the day of Heyer’s death, when
most Americans were looking to the president to clearly and unambiguously
condemn neo-Nazis and the Ku Klux Klan, he condemned hatred, bigotry,
and violence “on many sides.” Two days later, he read aloud a written

statement that offered condemnation, but the very next day, in unscripted
remarks, he said that there were “very fine people on both sides.”67 With those
three words—“very fine people”68—the president showed that he was
sympathetic to the men who staged the most highly publicized march for
racism and antisemitism in the United States in many decades.

The Autumn of 2017
Charlottesville was a tragedy that presented an opportunity. With many
Republicans, conservatives, and leaders from both business and the military
distancing themselves from the president and his remarks,69 it would have
been a good time to draw larger circles and change the landscape of American
politics.70 On campus, however, where levels of fear and anger were
understandably elevated in the wake of the events in Charlottesville, the more
common response seemed to be an increase in us-versus-them thinking,
including hostility aimed at people and groups (including many on the left)
who otherwise could have become allies. The autumn of 2017 saw more
episodes of students using the heckler’s veto to shut down classes and
speeches than in any previous semester on record.71 For example, students at
William & Mary shut down a speech by Claire Guthrie Gastañaga, the
executive director of the Virginia affiliate of the American Civil Liberties
Union (ACLU), because the ACLU had defended the constitutional rights of
the Charlottesville alt-right march organizers.72 The ACLU has consistently
defended the rights of the poor, minority populations, LGBTQ individuals,
and others whom progressives reliably defend. For example, it defended the
right of a pregnant, undocumented teen to get an abortion,73 the rights of
English translators of radical Islamic texts that call for jihad,74 and the rights
of the Black Panthers.75 The ACLU defends rights, not ideologies. But William
& Mary students chanted, among other things, “The revolution will not
uphold the Constitution!” and “Liberalism is white supremacy!”76
A few weeks later, the president of the University of Oregon’s “State of the
University” speech was shut down by close to fifty students who seized the
stage, chanting “Nothing about us without us.” A student with a megaphone
insisted, “We will not be ignored” and “Expect resistance to anyone who

opposes us.” A student protester complained about the oppression of
minority students, tuition increases, and indigenous rights, and described
“fascism and neo-Nazis” as the reason for the protest.77 (The president,
Michael Schill, whose extended family members were murdered by actual
fascists during World War II, responded with a New York Times op-ed piece
titled “The Misguided Student Crusade Against ‘Fascism.’”78) The following
week, at the question-and-answer session of an event at UCLA titled “What Is
Civil Discourse? Challenging Hate Speech in a Free Society,” sponsored by
the United States Holocaust Memorial Museum, protesters from a group
called “Refuse Fascism” disrupted the event.79
And then there’s Reed College, in Portland, Oregon. For thirteen months,
beginning in September of 2016, campus activists tried to shut down the
freshman humanities course because it focused on the thinkers of ancient
Greece and the eastern Mediterranean world (who would be considered white
today).80 These tactics often work against the protesters’ own goals, as they
alienate many people who might otherwise support them. For example, one
of the lecturers in the course was Lucía Martínez Valdivia, who tried to teach
the work of Sappho, an ancient Greek poet from the island of Lesbos and an
icon of both feminism and lesbian liberation.81 Martínez Valdivia found it
hard to lecture while students were waving signs with aggressive and vulgar
statements right next to her at the front of the classroom. She shared with
students the fact that she has PTSD and asked them, out of concern for her
health, not to protest in her classroom. They complained in an open letter82
that her request “creates a hierarchy [of traumas] where your traumas matter
more” and accused her of being “anti-black,” “ableist,” and engaging in
“gaslighting,” that is, manipulating victims by making them question their
perceptions or their sanity. She was shocked that the college allowed these
intimidating in-class protests to go on, and decided she had to speak out. In
October 2017, she wrote a powerful essay in The Washington Post titled
“Professors Like Me Can’t Stay Silent About This Extremist Moment on
Campuses.” Here is an excerpt:
No one should have to pass someone else’s ideological purity test to be
allowed to speak. University life—along with civic life—dies without the free
exchange of ideas. In the face of intimidation, educators must speak up, not
shut down. Ours is a position of unique responsibility: We teach people not

what to think, but how to think. Realizing and accepting this has made me—
an eminently replaceable, untenured, gay, mixed-race woman with PTSD—
realize that no matter the precariousness of my situation, I have a
responsibility to model the appreciation of difference and care of thought I
try to foster in my students. If I, like so many colleagues nationwide, am
afraid to say what I think, am I not complicit in the problem?83

• • • • •
Charlottesville was a national tragedy that sent shock waves through many
American institutions, particularly universities. It occurred in the middle of
the tumultuous first year of Donald Trump’s presidency. In the months
afterward, there was a big increase in efforts by off-campus white supremacist
organizations to provoke students and recruit members by putting up racist
posters, flyers, and stickers on hundreds of campuses.84 We understand why
so many students embraced more active and confrontational forms of protest.
But because their activism is often based on an embrace of the Great Untruths
and a tendency to attack potential allies, and because aggressive protests are
often exactly what right-wing provocateurs are hoping to provoke, we believe
that many student activists are harming themselves as well as their causes.

Why It Is Such a Bad Idea to Tell Students That
Words Are Violence
Most students oppose the use of violence. When asked in a poll conducted by
FIRE whether they themselves would use violence to stop someone from
speaking, only 1% said yes.85 But there is a much larger group—roughly 20%
to 30%, according to the two surveys we described earlier—that is willing to
support other students who use violence, drawing on the sorts of justifications
offered by the Berkeley students. The most common justification is that hate
speech is violence, and some students believe it is therefore legitimate to use
violence to shut down hate speech. Setting aside the questions of moral and

constitutional legitimacy, what are the psychological consequences of
thinking this way?
Members of some identity groups surely face more frequent insults to
their dignity than do straight white males, on average. A free-for-all attitude
toward speech that allows people to say whatever they want with no fear of
consequences can therefore affect people with different social identities
differently. As we noted in chapter 2, some portion of what is commonly
called political correctness is just being thoughtful or polite—using words in a
way that is considerate to others.86 But students make a serious mistake when
they interpret words—even words spoken with hatred—as violence.
In a widely circulated essay in The New York Times in July 2017, the
argument that words can be violence was made by Lisa Feldman Barrett, a
well-respected professor of psychology and emotion researcher at
Northeastern University.87 Barrett offered this syllogism: “If words can cause
stress, and if prolonged stress can cause physical harm, then it seems that
speech—at least certain types of speech—can be a form of violence.”
We responded in an essay in The Atlantic, in which we noted that it is a
logical error to accept the claim that harm—even physical harm—is the same
as violence.88 Barrett’s syllogism takes the form that if A can cause B and B
can cause C, then A can cause C. Therefore, if words can cause stress and
stress can cause harm, then words can cause harm, but that does not establish
that words are violence. It only establishes that words can result in harm—
even physical harm—which we don’t doubt. To see the difference, just rerun
the syllogism by swapping in “breaking up with your girlfriend” or “giving
students a lot of homework.” Both of these can provoke stress in someone else
(including elevated levels of cortisol), and stress can cause harm, so both can
cause harm. That doesn’t mean that they are violent acts.
Interpreting a campus lecture as violence is a choice, and it is a choice that
increases your pain with respect to the lecture while reducing your options
for how to respond. If you interpret a speech by Milo Yiannopoulos as a
violent attack on your fellow students, then you have a moral obligation to do
something about it, perhaps even something violent. That is precisely how
trolls manipulate their victims.
But if you keep the distinction between speech and violence clear in your
mind, then many more options are available to you. First, you can take the
Stoic response and develop your ability to remain unmoved. As Marcus

Aurelius advised, “Choose not to be harmed—and you won’t feel harmed.
Don’t feel harmed—and you haven’t been.”89 The more ways your identity
can be threatened by casual daily interactions, the more valuable it will be to
cultivate the Stoic (and Buddhist, and CBT) ability to not be emotionally
reactive, to not let others control your mind and your cortisol levels. The
Stoics understood that words don’t cause stress directly; they can only
provoke stress and suffering in a person who has interpreted those words as
posing a threat. You can choose whether to interpret a visiting speaker as
harmful. You can pick your battles, devote your efforts to changing policies
that matter to you, and make yourself immune to trolls. The internet will
always be there; extremists will always be posting potentially offensive images
and statements; some groups will be targeted more than others. It’s not fair,
but even as we work to lessen hatred and heal divisions, all of us must learn to
ignore some of the things we see and just carry on with our day.
A second and more radical response opens up when you reject the “speech
is violence” view: you can use your opponents’ ideas and arguments to make
yourself stronger. The progressive activist Van Jones (who was President
Barack Obama’s green jobs advisor) endorsed this view in February of 2017 in
a conversation at the University of Chicago’s Institute for Politics. When
Democratic strategist David Axelrod asked Jones about how progressive
students should react when people they find ideologically offensive (such as
someone associated with the Trump administration) are invited to speak on
campus, Jones began by noting the distinction we described in chapter 1
between physical and emotional “safety”:
There are two ideas about safe spaces: One is a very good idea and one is
a terrible idea. The idea of being physically safe on a campus—not being
subjected to sexual harassment and physical abuse, or being targeted
specifically, personally, for some kind of hate speech—“you are an n-word,”
or whatever—I am perfectly fine with that. But there’s another view that is
now I think ascendant, which I think is just a horrible view, which is that “I
need to be safe ideologically. I need to be safe emotionally. I just need to
feel good all the time, and if someone says something that I don’t like, that’s
a problem for everybody else, including the [university] administration.”90

Jones then delivered some of the best advice for college students we have
ever heard. He rejected the Untruth of Fragility and turned safetyism on its

head:
I don’t want you to be safe ideologically. I don’t want you to be safe
emotionally. I want you to be strong. That’s different. I’m not going to pave
the jungle for you. Put on some boots, and learn how to deal with adversity.
I’m not going to take all the weights out of the gym; that’s the whole point of
the gym. This is the gym.

Jones understands antifragility. Jones wants progressive college students
to see themselves not as fragile candles but as fires, welcoming the wind by
seeking out ideologically different speakers and ideas.

In Sum
The “Milo Riot” at UC Berkeley on February 1, 2017, marked a major
shift in campus protests. Violence was used successfully to stop a
speaker; people were injured, and there were (as far as we can tell) no
costs to those who were violent. Some students later justified the
violence as a legitimate form of “self-defense” to prevent speech that
they said was violent.
Hardly any students say that they themselves would use violence to
shut down a speech, but two surveys conducted in late 2017 found that
substantial minorities of students (20% in one survey and 30% in the
other) said it was sometimes “acceptable” for other students to use
violence to prevent a speaker from speaking on campus.
The “Unite the Right” rally in Charlottesville, Virginia, in which a
white nationalist killed a peaceful counterprotester and injured others,
further raised tensions on campus, especially as provocations from farright groups increased in the months afterward.
In the fall of 2017, the number of efforts to shut down speakers reached
a record level.
In 2017, the idea that speech can be violence (even when it does not
involve threats, harassment, or calls for violence) seemed to spread,
assisted by the tendency in some circles to focus only on perceived

impact, not on intent. Words that give rise to stress or fear for
members of some groups are now often regarded as a form of violence.
Speech is not violence. Treating it as such is an interpretive choice, and
it is a choice that increases pain and suffering while preventing other,
more effective responses, including the Stoic response (cultivating
nonreactivity) and the antifragile response suggested by Van Jones:
“Put on some boots, and learn how to deal with adversity.”
In the quotation that opened this chapter, Nelson Mandela warned us
against the danger of demonizing opponents and using violence against them.
Like Mahatma Gandhi, Martin Luther King, Jr., and other advocates of
nonviolent resistance, Mandela noted that violent and dehumanizing tactics
are self-defeating, closing off the possibility of peaceful resolution. But what if
the goal of a movement isn’t entirely peaceful resolution but, rather—at least
in part—group cohesion? What might we see if we take a sociological
approach to the new culture of safetyism?

CHAPTER 5

Witch Hunts
Mass movements can rise and spread without belief in a God, but never
without belief in a devil.
ERIC HOFFER, The True Believer1

M

aoist,” “McCarthyite,” “Jacobin,” and above all, “witch hunt.” These
terms are sometimes applied to the sorts of events we described in
the last chapter. Those who apply such terms are claiming that what
we are witnessing on campus exemplifies a situation long studied by
sociologists in which a community becomes obsessed with religious or
ideological purity and believes it needs to find and punish enemies within its
own ranks in order to hold itself together.
From the fifteenth through the seventeenth century, Europe experienced
multiple waves of witch hunts, driven primarily by religious wars and
conflicts in the wake of the Reformation, and also by fears brought on by
recurring plague outbreaks.2 Tens of thousands of innocent people—and
possibly hundreds of thousands—were put to death, often after being “put to
the question” (that is, tortured) with the aid of boiling oil, red-hot iron bars,
or thumbscrews.3
The most famous witch hunt in U.S. history occurred in Salem,
Massachusetts. In January of 1692, two young girls began to suffer from fits
and tremors, which their elders attributed to witchcraft. In the following
months, dozens of people claimed that they were tormented by witches or
that they or their animals had been bewitched. Legal action was taken against
at least 144 people (38 of them male) who were accused of practicing

witchcraft. Nineteen were executed by hanging; one was crushed by heavy
stones.4
Historical and sociological analyses of witch trials have generally
explained these outbreaks as responses to a group experiencing either a sense
of threat from outside, or division and loss of cohesion within. In Salem, a
terrifying border war had broken out a few years earlier against the French
and their Native American allies in what is now Maine (but was at that time
part of Massachusetts). The townspeople were still anxious about attacks.5 Do
the campus events making national headlines since the fall of 2015 fit into this
sociological framework?
One of Jon’s favorite thinkers of all time is Emile Durkheim, the
nineteenth- to early twentieth-century French sociologist. Durkheim saw
groups and communities as being in some ways like organisms—social
entities that have a chronic need to enhance their internal cohesion and their
shared sense of moral order. Durkheim described human beings as “homo
duplex,” or “two-level man.”6 We are very good at being individuals pursuing
our everyday goals (which Durkheim called the level of the “profane,” or
ordinary). But we also have the capacity to transition, temporarily, to a higher
collective plane, which Durkheim called the level of the “sacred.” He said that
we have access to a set of emotions that we experience only when we are part
of a collective—feelings like “collective effervescence,” which Durkheim
described as social “electricity” generated when a group gathers and achieves
a state of union. (You’ve probably felt this while doing things like playing a
team sport or singing in a choir, or during religious worship.) People can
move back and forth between these two levels throughout a single day, and it
is the function of religious rituals to pull people up to the higher collective
level, bind them to the group, and then return them to daily life with their
group identity and loyalty strengthened. Rituals in which people sing or
dance together or chant in unison are particularly powerful.
A Durkheimian approach is particularly helpful when applied to sudden
outbreaks of moralistic violence that are mystifying to outsiders. In 1978, the
sociologist Albert Bergesen wrote an essay titled “A Durkheimian Theory of
‘Witch-Hunts’ With the Chinese Cultural Revolution of 1966–1969 as an
Example.”7 Bergesen used Durkheim to illuminate the madness that erupted
in Beijing in May 1966, when Mao Zedong began warning about the rising
threat of infiltration by pro-capitalist enemies. Zealous college students

responded by forming the Red Guards to find and punish enemies of the
revolution. Universities across the country were shut down for several years.
During those years, the Red Guards rooted out any trace they could find—or
imagine—of capitalism, foreign influence, or bourgeois values. In practice,
this meant that anyone who was successful or accomplished was suspect, and
many professors, intellectuals, and campus administrators were imprisoned
or murdered.8
Among the many cruel features of the Cultural Revolution were the
“struggle sessions,” in which those accused of ideological impurity were
surrounded by their accusers, taunted, humiliated, and sometimes beaten as
they confessed to their crimes, offered abject apologies, and vowed to do
better. Students sometimes turned on their own teachers. Over the next few
years, tens of millions were persecuted, and hundreds of thousands were
murdered.9
How could such an orgy of self-destruction have happened? Bergesen
notes that there are three features common to most political witch hunts: they
arise very quickly, they involve charges of crimes against the collective, and
the offenses that lead to charges are often trivial or fabricated. Here’s how
Bergesen puts it:
1. They arise quickly: “Witch-hunts seem to appear in dramatic
outbursts; they are not a regular feature of social life. A community
seems to suddenly find itself infested with all sorts of subversive
elements which pose a threat to the collectivity as a whole. Whether
one thinks of the Reign of Terror during the French Revolution, the
Stalinist Show Trials, or the McCarthy period in the United States, the
phenomenon is the same: a community becomes intensely mobilized
to rid itself of internal enemies.”10
2. Crimes against the collective: “The various charges that appear during
one of these witch-hunts involve accusations of crimes committed
against the nation as a corporate whole. It is the whole of collective
existence that is at stake; it is The Nation, The People, The
Revolution, or The State which is being undermined and subverted.”11
3. Charges are often trivial or fabricated: “These crimes and deviations
seem to involve the most petty and insignificant behavioral acts which

are somehow understood as crimes against the nation as a whole. In
fact, one of the principal reasons we term these events ‘witch-hunts’ is
that innocent people are so often involved and falsely accused.”12
To Bergesen’s list we’ll add a fourth feature, which necessarily follows
from the first three:
4. Fear of defending the accused: When a public accusation is made,
many friends and bystanders know that the victim is innocent, but
they are afraid to say anything. Anyone who comes to the defense of
the accused is obstructing the enactment of a collective ritual. Siding
with the accused is truly an offense against the group, and it will be
treated as such. If passions and fears are intense enough, people will
even testify against their friends and family members.
Does Bergesen’s Durkheimian analysis of the Cultural Revolution help to
explain the dramatic events that have been happening on campus since 2015,
some of which we described in the previous chapter? As historical events, the
two movements are radically different, most notably in that the Red Guards
were supported by a totalitarian dictator who encouraged them to use
violence, while American college students have been self-organized and
almost entirely nonviolent. Yet there are similarities, too. For example, both
movements were initiated by idealistic students fighting for what seemed to
them a noble ideal: the remaking of society along egalitarian lines. Bergesen’s
analysis captures the fact that both movements began with “dramatic
outbursts,” which were followed by intense and rapid mobilization on college
campuses across the country.13 It also captures the fact that large reactions are
often launched in response to small acts, such as Erika Christakis’s email
about Halloween costumes at Yale14 and Mary Spellman’s use of the word
“mold” when reaching out to a student at Claremont McKenna College.15
Outside observers were often unable to comprehend how these two emails
could have triggered mass movements demanding that the two women be
denounced and fired.
Bergesen’s approach also works well when applied to the violence at
Middlebury College. The videos of the main shout-down show students

chanting, singing, and at times swaying in unison to prevent Charles Murray
from speaking.16 It’s a striking demonstration of Durkheim’s “collective
effervescence” building up a charge of social electricity that prepares the
group for action. Research shows that synchronous movements like singing
and swaying make groups more cooperative and make people who participate
physically stronger in challenges they undertake right afterward.17 Perhaps the
violent attack on Professor Stanger would not have taken place if Murray had
been moved out immediately and the students had not had so much time to
sway and chant in unison.
We call a campaign a witch hunt when we believe that the targets of the
attacks (such as Erika Christakis and Mary Spellman) are innocent, but even
if we are right, that does not mean that the people doing the hunting lack any
valid reason for their anger and fear. By 2015, most people had seen videos of
police officers shooting or choking unarmed black men. It is understandable
that many black students were on edge, felt a generalized sense of threat, and
became increasingly active in movements to oppose systemic racism,
particularly in the criminal justice system. But why did college students direct
so much of their passion and effort toward changing their universities and to
finding enemies within their own communities? And here’s a related puzzle:
Why were the protests strongest and most common at schools known for
progressive politics in the most progressive parts of the United States (New
England and the West Coast)?18 Are these not the schools that are already the
most devoted to enacting progressive and inclusive social policies?
To advance in our inquiry, let’s switch our focus away from students for a
moment. We will examine a trend among professors that seems to fit the
Durkheimian framework quite well: the use of open letters of denunciation.
Professors try to round up hundreds of other professors to condemn a fellow
professor or to demand that an academic article be retracted (rather than
simply rebutting it). Something has been changing among the faculty, as well
as among the students. (We’ll examine these changes in the broader national
context of rising political polarization in the next chapter, when we’ll examine
the role that provocation from the right from off campus plays in these
unusual events on campus.)

A Provocative Idea
On March 29, 2017, Hypatia: A Journal of Feminist Philosophy posted to its
website an article titled “In Defense of Transracialism.”19 In the essay,
Rebecca Tuvel, an assistant professor of philosophy at Rhodes College in
Memphis, Tennessee, juxtaposed the largely positive public reaction to news
of Caitlyn Jenner’s gender transition (from man to woman) with the “ridicule
and condemnation” that accompanied the revelation that Rachel Dolezal, a
former chapter president of the NAACP, a civil rights organization, was not
black but, rather, a white woman who claimed that she “identif[ies] as
black.”20 Tuvel, noting that her concerns were not with the particulars of the
Dolezal case but “with the arguments for and against transracialism,” argued
that while society is hostile to transracialism and more open to
transgenderism, the two kinds of identity transformation raise many of the
same considerations.
In the article, Tuvel stressed that she is a strong advocate of transgender
rights and that she was “not suggesting that race and sex are equivalent.” She
had explored similar ideas before without controversy; her Rhodes College
web page states that her research “lies at the intersection of feminist
philosophy, philosophy of race and animal ethics.” In much of her work, she
considers the ways in which the oppression of “animals, women and racially
subordinated groups” overlap to “maintain erroneous and harmful
conceptions of humanity.”21 This is a scholar who knows her way around
contemporary debates, and surely meant no harm to transgender people.
But in today’s culture of safetyism, intent no longer matters; only
perceived impact does, and thanks to concept creep, just about anything can
be perceived as having a harmful—even violent—impact on vulnerable
groups. According to Bergesen, anything that can be construed as an attack
on a group can serve as an opportunity for collective punishment and the
enhancement of group solidarity.
Within a few weeks of its publication, the article had generated such an
uproar that an open letter was published, addressed to an editor of Hypatia
and the “broader Hypatia community.”22 The letter demanded that the article
be retracted—not rebutted but retracted. The signers were not asking for a
chance to respond to Tuvel and correct her alleged mistakes (a common

practice in academia); they were demanding that the article vanish from the
scholarly record (a very rare occurrence, usually reserved for cases of fraud or
plagiarism). They contended that the “continued availability” of the article
caused “harm” to women of color and the transgender community. Yet,
although the letter’s authors asserted that “many harms” were “committed by
[the article’s] publishing,” the alleged “harm” was not described. In fact, by
claiming that the letter “is not an exhaustive summary of the many harms
caused by this article,” they sidestepped their lack of evidence that the article
had caused (or could cause) any harm at all.23
Individual critics were quick to chime in, calling the article “transphobic,”
“violent,” and an expression of “all that is wrong with white feminism.” Nora
Berenstain, an assistant professor of philosophy at the University of
Tennessee, took to Facebook to expound on the article’s “discursive
transmisogynistic violence.” She asserted that Tuvel “enacts violence and
perpetuates harm in numerous ways throughout her essay,” because she
“deadnames a trans woman” (that is, Tuvel mentioned that Jenner’s former
male, or “dead,” name, was Bruce),24 she “uses the term ‘transgenderism,’” she
“talks about ‘biological sex,’” and she “uses phrases like ‘male genitalia.’” It is
striking how many of the critics’ complaints refer not to Tuvel’s arguments
but to her word choices. In fact, one of the arguments for retraction given in
the open letter was that Tuvel used “vocabulary and frameworks not
recognized, accepted, or adopted by the conventions of the relevant
subfields.” As when Dean Spellman used the word “mold” in her email, “petty
and insignificant behavioral acts” (to use Bergesen’s phrase) can be
considered “crimes against the [group] as a whole.”25
Jesse Singal, a left-leaning social science journalist, read the list of charges
in the open letter and then read Tuvel’s original essay. As he put it in an
online article for New York magazine, “Each and every one of the falsifiable
points [that the open letter] makes is, based on a plain reading of Tuvel’s
article, simply false or misleading.” He concluded:
All in all, it’s remarkable how many basic facts this letter gets wrong about
Tuvel’s paper. Either the authors simply lied about the article’s contents, or
they didn’t read it at all. Every single one of the hundreds of signatories on
the open letter now has their name on a document that severely (and
arguably maliciously) mischaracterizes the work of one of their colleagues.

This is not the sort of thing that usually happens in academia—it’s a really
strange, disturbing instance of mass groupthink, perhaps fueled by the
dynamics of online shaming and piling-on.26

The reaction to Tuvel’s article fits well into a Durkheimian framework: it
is a surprising, “out of nowhere” eruption of “mass groupthink” in which
trivial things (such as using the phrase “male genitalia”) are taken as grave
attacks on a vulnerable community. These attacks then warrant a collective,
solidarity-boosting response: an open letter that recruits hundreds of people
to publicly sign their names and collectively point their fingers at the accused
witch. Singal even titled his essay “This Is What a Modern-Day Witch Hunt
Looks Like.”
The Tuvel affair also shows the fourth criterion of a witch hunt: fear of
defending the accused.27 Tuvel’s Ph.D. advisor, Kelly Oliver, wrote an essay
defending her former student, in which she lamented the cowardice of so
many of her colleagues:
In private messages [to Oliver, and to Tuvel], some people commiserated,
expressed support, and apologized for what was happening and for not
going public with their support. As one academic wrote to me in a private
message, “sorry I’m not saying this publicly (I have no interest in battling the
mean girls on Facebook) but FWIW [for what it’s worth] it’s totally obvious to
me that you haven’t been committing acts of violence against marginalized
scholars.”

Oliver noted that some scholars went beyond cowardice, privately
supporting Tuvel while publicly attacking her:
In private messages, these people apologized for what she must be going
through, while in public they fanned the flames of hatred and bile on social
media. The question is, why did so many scholars, especially feminists,
express one sentiment behind closed doors and another out in the open?
Why were so many others afraid to say anything in public?28

Durkheim and Bergesen give us a direct answer to Oliver’s question.29
This is precisely what people do during a witch hunt.

Retraction Is the New Rebuttal
Other open letters condemning professors and demanding retraction of their
work soon followed.30 In August 2017, two law professors, Amy Wax from
the University of Pennsylvania and Larry Alexander from the University of
San Diego, wrote a short opinion essay in a Philadelphia newspaper titled
“Paying the Price for Breakdown of the Country’s Bourgeois Culture.”31 They
argued that many of today’s social problems, including unemployment,
crime, drug use, and the intergenerational transmission of poverty, are
partially caused by the fading away of the “bourgeois cultural script” that used
to compel Americans to “get married before you have children and strive to
stay married for their sake. Get the education you need for gainful
employment, work hard, and avoid idleness.” The authors included one
particular line that caused a firestorm: “All cultures are not equal. Or at least
they are not equal in preparing people to be productive in an advanced
economy.” The line is provocative because it violates a widespread taboo in
the academic world: One is not supposed to say that a dominant culture is
superior to a nondominant one in any way. But anthropologists generally
agree that cultures and subcultures instill different goals, skills, and virtues in
their members,32 and it can’t possibly be true that all cultures prepare children
equally well for success in all other cultures. If we want to improve outcomes
for immigrants and the poor in a free-market, service-oriented capitalist
economy such as ours, Wax and Alexander argued, it would be useful to talk
about bourgeois culture.
A week later, fifty-four graduate students and alumni of the University of
Pennsylvania published a statement that condemned the essay and its authors
for exemplifying the “malignant logic of hetero-patriarchal, class-based, white
supremacy.” In good Durkheimian fashion, the open letter issued a strong call
for solidarity among “all members of the University of Pennsylvania
community who claim to fight systemic inequality,” and it included a demand
that the president of the university confront the racism of Wax and Alexander
and “push for an investigation into Wax’s advocacy for white supremacy.”33
The call for denunciation was taken up by thirty-three of Wax’s colleagues in
the law school (nearly half the faculty), who wrote their own open letter of
denunciation. They did not do what scholars are supposed to do: use their

scholarly abilities to show where Wax and Alexander were wrong. They
simply “condemned” and “categorically rejected” Wax’s claims.34

Solidarity or Diversity?
Solidarity is great for a group that needs to work in unison or march into
battle. Solidarity engenders trust, teamwork, and mutual aid. But it can also
foster groupthink, orthodoxy, and a paralyzing fear of challenging the
collective. Solidarity can interfere with a group’s efforts to find the truth, and
the search for truth can interfere with a group’s solidarity. The Greek
historian Thucydides saw this principle in action over two thousand years
ago. Writing about a time of wars and revolutions in the fifth century BCE, he
noted that “the ability to understand a question from all sides meant that one
was totally unfitted for action.”35
This is why viewpoint diversity is so essential in any group of scholars.
Each professor is—like all human beings—a flawed thinker with a strong
preference for believing that his or her own ideas are right. Each scholar
suffers from the confirmation bias—the tendency to search vigorously for
evidence that confirms what one already believes.36 One of the most brilliant
features of universities is that, when they are working properly, they are
communities of scholars who cancel out one another’s confirmation biases.
Even if professors often cannot see the flaws in their own arguments, other
professors and students do them the favor of finding such flaws. The
community of scholars then judges which ideas survive the debate. We can
call this process institutionalized disconfirmation. The institution (the
academy as a whole, or a discipline, such as political science) guarantees that
every statement offered as a research finding—and certainly every peerreviewed article—has survived a process of challenge and vetting. That is no
guarantee that it is true, but it is a reason to think that the statement is likely
to be more reliable than alternative statements made by partisan think tanks,
corporate marketers, or your opinionated uncle. It is only because of
institutionalized disconfirmation that universities and groups of scholars can
claim some authority to be arbiters of factual questions, such as whether
certain vaccines caused the rise in autism (they didn’t)37 or whether social

programs designed to help poor children close achievement gaps with
wealthier kids actually work (some do, some don’t).38
But what would happen to a university, or an academic field, if everyone
were on the same team and everyone shared the same confirmation bias? The
disconfirmation process would break down. Research shows that reviewers go
easy on articles and grant proposals that support their political team, and they
are more critical of articles and proposals that contradict their team’s values
or beliefs.39 This, to some extent, is what has happened in many academic
fields since the 1990s, with enormous ramifications for university culture
today.
It is no surprise that, on the whole, professors lean left. So do artists, poets,
and people who love to watch foreign movies. One of the strongest
personality correlates of left-wing politics is the trait of openness to experience,
a trait that describes people who crave new ideas and experiences and who
tend to be interested in changing traditional arrangements.40 On the other
hand, members of the military, law enforcement personnel, and students who
have well-organized dorm rooms tend to lean right. (Seriously. You can guess
people’s political leanings at better-than-chance levels just from photographs
of their desks.)41 Social conservatives tend to be lower on openness to
experience and higher on conscientiousness—they prefer things to be orderly
and predictable, they are more likely to show up on time for meetings, and
they are more likely to see the value of traditional arrangements.
In a free society, therefore, it will simply never be the case that every
occupation is evenly balanced, politically, and it will generally be the case that
professors lean left, especially in the humanities and social sciences. This is
not a problem as long as there are enough professors who don’t lean left to
guarantee institutionalized disconfirmation in any field that addresses
politicized topics. A left-to-right ratio of two or three to one should be
enough to sustain institutionalized disconfirmation. And that’s about what
the ratio was for most of the twentieth century.
Figure 5.1 shows the percentage of professors (across all fields) who selfidentified on a survey as being on the left (in the top line), the right (bottom
line) or “middle of the road” (middle line). The left-to-right ratio in the early
1990s was around two to one. The few studies we have that go back to the
mid-twentieth century generally also show that professors leaned to the left,
or voted for Democrats, but not by a very lopsided margin.42 Things began to

change rapidly, however, in the late 1990s. That’s when the professors from
the Greatest Generation began to retire, to be replaced by members of the
Baby Boom generation. By 2011, the ratio had reached five to one. The
Greatest Generation professors were predominantly white men who had
fought in World War II, and then got a boost into higher education from
legislation designed to help them in the postwar period. That wave of scholars
included many Republicans and many conservatives.
The Politics of Professors

FIGURE 5.1. How professors described their own politics. The left-right ratio has

increased rapidly since the mid-1990s. (Source: Higher Education Research
Institute.43 Data is from nationally representative surveys of professors in the United
States. Graphed by Sam Abrams.)

The Baby Boom professors, in contrast, were more diverse by race and
gender but less diverse in their politics. Many of them were influenced by the
great wave of social protests in the 1960s; many went into academic careers in
the social sciences and education in order to continue to fight for social
justice and progressive social causes.

This is why the ratio changes so much more dramatically when we look at
fields that are associated with addressing social justice concerns. In Jon’s field,
academic psychology, the left-to-right ratio was between two to one and four
to one from the 1930s through the mid-1990s, but then it began to shoot
upward, reaching seventeen to one by 2016.44 The ratios in other core fields in
the humanities and social sciences are nearly all above ten to one. The
imbalance is larger at more prestigious universities and in New England.45
The only field among all of the humanities and social sciences that is known
to have enough political diversity to allow for institutionalized
disconfirmation is economics, where the left-to-right ratio found in a study of
the voter registrations of professors was a comparatively low four to one.46
The loss of political diversity among professors, particularly in fields that
deal with politicized content, can undermine the quality and rigor of
scholarly research. Six social scientists (including Jon) wrote an academic
article in 2015 that explains how.47 For example, when a field lacks political
diversity, researchers tend to congregate around questions and research
methods that generally confirm their shared narrative, while ignoring
questions and methods that don’t offer such support.
The loss of political diversity among the faculty has negative consequences
for students, too, in three ways. First, there’s the problem that many college
students have little or no exposure to professors from half of the political
spectrum.48 Many students graduate with an inaccurate understanding of
conservatives, politics, and much of the United States. Three days after
Donald Trump’s widely unexpected electoral victory, the editors of Harvard’s
main student newspaper made exactly this case in an editorial invoking
Harvard’s motto, Veritas—the Latin word for “truth”—calling on the
administration to give them more political diversity:
The pursuit of “Veritas” which undergirds our intellectual life demands not
only that each member of our community be able to debate politics freely,
but also that we attend to the multitude of political views that exist in our
nation. Stifling this discussion on campus is a disservice to our peers in the
campus political minority, and to our own educational growth.49

Second, the loss of viewpoint diversity among the faculty means that what
students learn about politically controversial topics will often be “left shifted”

from the truth. There is a range of reasonable opinions on many factual
questions. (For example: How much does raising the minimum wage cause
employers to hire fewer low-skilled workers? How much of an influence do
prenatal hormones have on the differing toy and play preferences of boys
versus girls?) But students in politically homogeneous departments will
mostly be exposed to books and research studies drawn from the left half of
the range, so they are likely to come down to the “left” of the truth, on
average. (For example, they are likely to underestimate the elasticity of labor
demand, especially if they attended prestigious universities in New England.)
Sometimes the left-leaning view turns out to be correct, sometimes it’s the
right-leaning view, but on average, students will get closer to the truth if they
are exposed to debates among credentialed scholars who approach difficult
problems from differing perspectives.
To compound this second problem, during the same period in which the
faculty were becoming more politically homogeneous, so were the students.
Surveys of incoming freshmen conducted by the Higher Education Research
Institute show that roughly 20% of incoming students identify as
conservative, and that figure has held steady since the early 1980s. Selfdescribed “moderates” made up roughly half of all incoming students in the
1980s and 1990s, but that figure has been dropping since the early 2000s—it’s
now in the low forties—as the percentage of progressives (self-described
“liberals”) rises into the high 30s.50 The shift has accelerated since 2012.51
We are not saying there is anything inherently wrong with the increasing
number of left-leaning students on campus. But we are saying that viewpoint
diversity is necessary for the development of critical thinking, while viewpoint
homogeneity (whether on the left or the right) leaves a community vulnerable
to groupthink and orthodoxy. If both the faculty and the students have been
losing moderates and gaining progressives since the 1990s, and if this shift
among students has accelerated since 2012, then we would expect to see some
changes in the culture and social dynamics of American universities,
especially after 2012.52
This is the third problem. It is the Durkheimian problem. It is the risk that
some academic communities—particularly those in the most progressive parts
of the country—may attain such high levels of political homogeneity and
solidarity that they undergo a phase change, taking on properties of a
collective entity that are antithetical to the normal aims of a university. A

collective entity mobilized for action is more likely to enforce political
orthodoxy and less likely to tolerate challenges to its key ideological beliefs.
Politically homogeneous communities are more susceptible to witch hunts,
particularly when they feel threatened from outside.

Welcome to Evergreen
The Evergreen State College, a small public college an hour’s drive south of
Seattle, has long had a reputation for quirky progressivism. The college is
located on a nature reserve and has its own organic farm. Instead of grades,
students receive narrative reports. It has been listed as one of the ten most
liberal colleges in the country.53 In 2011, the college changed its mission
statement to include this: “Evergreen supports and benefits from local and
global commitment to social justice, diversity, environmental stewardship
and service in the public interest.”54 In May of 2017, Evergreen slipped into a
state of anarchy that is difficult to explain without the help of Durkheim.
Campus tensions had already been rising when, on March 15, Bret
Weinstein, a politically progressive biology professor, emailed a faculty
listserv55 to express his concern about plans for that year’s “Day of Absence,”56
which was scheduled to take place the following month. Inspired by a
Douglas Turner Ward play of the same name,57 staff and faculty members of
color (and later students, too) had been spending one day off campus each
year since the 1970s in order to make their absence—and thus the importance
of their contributions—felt. In the wake of Donald Trump’s election,
however, the organizers of the 2017 event decided to make a change: instead
of the day being an opportunity for people of color to voluntarily absent
themselves, this year, white students and faculty were asked to stay away from
campus.58
Professor Weinstein thought this was wrong.59 He wrote, “There is a huge
difference between a group or coalition deciding to voluntarily absent
themselves from a shared space in order to highlight their vital and underappreciated roles” and “encouraging another group to go away.”60 In a shared
space, “one’s right to speak—or to be,” he said, “must never be based on skin
color.” He also feared that white students and faculty who did not support the

structure of the Day of Absence and chose to come to campus that day would
be viewed negatively; their very presence might be interpreted to mean they
did not support the goals of the event.61 Weinstein had expressed other
concerns about the direction the college was taking when, a year earlier, the
college president, administrators, and select faculty committed to a
campuswide “equity” agenda, including a proposed policy that would require
all new employees to have an “equity” justification. The president of
Evergreen, George Bridges, had begun using the phrase “education-solidarityinclusion” in his memos and mailings. He and his “equity council” had also
undertaken various solidarity-building exercises, one of which included an
event during which faculty were publicly pressured by name to get into an
imaginary canoe, in which the faculty and administration then symbolically
journeyed toward equity together (to the sounds of crashing waves and a
Native American drumbeat).62 These rituals and talk of campuswide
“solidarity” make sense from a Durkheimian perspective. They are ways to
prepare a community for collective action.
The Day of Absence came and went “almost without incident,” according
to Weinstein,63 although not all white members of the community complied.
But more than a month later, on May 23, after other instances of campus
unrest, a multiethnic group of angry students marched to Weinstein’s
classroom door, cornered him in the hallway, and berated him.64 They swore
at him, calling him a “piece of shit” and telling him to “get the fuck out.” They
claimed that he made racist statements in his email,65 and they demanded that
he not only apologize but also resign. Weinstein disagreed with their
assessment of his email as “harmful” and “racist,” and he refused to apologize.
But he did try to engage the students in discussion or, as he called it,
“dialectic, which does mean I listen to you and you listen to me.” The
response was not positive: “We don’t care what terms you want to speak
on . . . we are not speaking on terms of white privilege.”66
The students continued to blast the professor, and tensions mounted.
Concerned for Weinstein’s safety, his students contacted the police, but
protesters physically prevented the police from reaching him.67 Campus
police requested backup from other police departments.68
Protesters, claiming to be “fearful for their lives,” marched on to the
administration building, where they found and confronted President Bridges
outside his office. Videos of the event show protesters saying, “Fuck you,

George, we don’t want to hear a Goddamn thing you have to say. . . . You shut
the fuck up.”69 The president agreed to meet with protesters along with the
staff and administrators who supported them, and then assured them that,
with respect to errant faculty in the sciences (such as Weinstein), “they’re
going to say some things we don’t like, and our job is to bring them all in or
get ’em out. And what I hear us stating that we are working toward is: bring
’em in, train ’em, and if they don’t get it, sanction ’em.”70 (Yes, that is the
president of a U.S. public college, which is bound by the First Amendment to
protect academic freedom, proposing to fire or punish professors who do not
accept the teachings of a mandatory political reeducation program.)
Some of the protesters insisted that campus police chief Stacy Brown join
the meeting—unarmed. Brown, who would not disarm in uniform, changed
into civilian clothes and arrived to find students shouting expletives and slurs,
some directed at her.71 Certain protesters were assigned to her and followed
her to another meeting later in the day, attended by hundreds of others. At
this larger gathering, protesters attached themselves to Brown, Weinstein,
and a few other noncompliant faculty and students. At all times, the
protesters controlled the exits.72 When Weinstein’s students overheard
protesters say they had mace and planned to prevent Weinstein from leaving
the building, they texted him to alert him. Weinstein texted his wife, Heather
Heying, a fellow biology professor: “I am told I will not be allowed to leave,”
and then, “Not sure what to do.”73
Video of that meeting is startling.74 Student protesters can be heard
insisting that Weinstein be fired in order to prevent him from what one white
protester later described as “spread[ing] this problematic rhetoric.”75 Students
of color who spoke supportively of Weinstein, or who even asked to hear
from people not in the protesters’ camp, were shouted down and called “race
traitors.”76 (White students who were not protesting were told to stand in the
back and were not allowed to speak.77)
Students repeatedly and publicly ridiculed the college president, even
berating him for smiling. One student yelled at President Bridges (who often
gesticulates with his hands), “Put your hand down!” while another student
mockingly imitated his hand gestures, adding, “That’s my problem [with
you], George, you keep making these little hand movements.” The president
immediately put his hands behind his back as the student walked around him

to laughter and applause, announcing that she was “decolonizing the space.”
Bridges responded, “My hands are down.”78
The next day, May 24, protesters searched cars looking for Weinstein.79
They interrupted a faculty meeting and took the cake meant to celebrate
retiring faculty, while asking, “Didn’t you educate us on how to do shit like
this?”80 Then, according to the student newspaper, student protesters
barricaded the main entrance to the administration building,81 and for several
hours, having occupied the building and gathered together the leadership of
the college, including President Bridges,82 they held them in an office. With
the leadership team sequestered, the students prepared and later presented
their demands. These included mandatory bias training for faculty, and
permission for protesters to not turn in their homework on time.83
Outside the office, students video-recorded themselves making sure that
the room had no escape routes and that there was enough student “presence”
to prevent administrators from leaving. Bridges ordered the campus police
not to intervene. One organizer of the protest told students there was a room
for them to “rest” and advised protesters to “make sure you’re all taking care
of yourselves in these moments.” Immediately after giving those instructions,
the same organizer entered the president’s office and asked the administrators
if they needed anything. Bridges is seen on video saying, “I need to pee.” The
organizer replies, “Hold it,” as several people laugh. (Protesters later escorted
Bridges to the bathroom.)84
Inside the president’s office, one student protester asked captive
administrators, “Don’t you think it’s continuing white supremacy when the
leadership is only white people?” Several administrators nodded and said yes,
thereby validating the students’ grossly expanded definition of white
supremacy.85 Outside the office, students chanted, “Hey hey/ho ho/these
racist faculty have got to go.” That night, in an email to the campus
community, an Evergreen media studies professor wrote approvingly that the
protesting students were “doing exactly what we’ve taught them.”
The following day, May 25, the police received information that protesters
intended to target the campus police department building. Ordered to stand
down,86 the police evacuated, setting up a post off campus and monitoring the
highly charged situation using campus security cameras and a local law
enforcement helicopter.87 Students who defended Weinstein were stalked,
and were targeted by protesters in thinly veiled online threats. The campus

police chief informed Weinstein that, out of concern for his safety, she
thought it would be best if he left campus.88 He held all but one of his
remaining classes that quarter off campus.89
Aside from his wife, Heather Heying, only one professor on the entire
faculty,90 Mike Paros, a professor of veterinary science, publicly supported
Weinstein.91 Weinstein later learned that several other professors were
supportive but afraid to say so in public.92 With so little support, with the
police urging him to stay off campus, and with no national media covering
the story of Evergreen’s descent into anarchy and intimidation, on May 26,
Weinstein accepted an invitation to be interviewed on the Fox News TV show
Tucker Carlson Tonight.93
Once the story went public, it attracted attention from the political right
and harassment from the alt-right, which we will discuss further in the next
chapter. On Thursday, June 1, a man in New Jersey called the Thurston
County emergency line and told the dispatcher he was on his way to
Evergreen to “execute as many people on campus as I can get ahold of.”94 Law
enforcement informed the school that there was no active threat, but as a
precautionary measure, the campus was shut down until Saturday, June 3.95
On June 3 and 4, bands of students began to roam the campus armed with
baseball bats and tasers, searching for “white supremacists.” They vandalized
buildings and assaulted several students.96 The New Jersey man was arrested a
month later.
How did this mess end? Who was held accountable? On June 2, roughly a
quarter of the college’s faculty signed a letter calling for Weinstein to be
investigated, blaming him for provoking “white supremacist backlash,” and
claiming that by speaking about what was happening on Fox News TV, he
“endangered” students.97 Weinstein and Heying rejected the assertion that he
was to blame. As employees of Evergreen, they filed a tort claim against the
college for tolerating, and even endorsing, egregious violations of the student
conduct code—including criminal behavior—and for fostering a racially
hostile work environment. In September 2017, the couple and Evergreen
agreed on a settlement, and the professors resigned.98 Police chief Stacy
Brown later made similar charges, claiming that “the hostile environment left
her with no choice but to resign from the College.”99
President Bridges, who at the beginning of the school year had criticized
the University of Chicago for its policy protecting free speech and academic

freedom,100 agreed to many of the protesters’ demands.101 He announced that
he was “grateful” for the “passion and courage” the protesters displayed,102
and later, he hired one of the leaders of the protests to join his Presidential
Equity Advisors.103 One of their primary tasks was to rewrite the student code
of conduct.

Great Untruth U
The events at Evergreen illustrate just about everything we’ve talked about in
this book so far. The early stages illustrate Bergesen’s three features of
political witch hunts: the movement seemed to come out of nowhere, it was
in response to a trivial provocation (a polite email sent to a faculty listserv),
and the provocation was interpreted as an attack on the entire Evergreen
community. As the drama unfolded, it illustrated our fourth criterion: faculty
and administrators who wanted to defend Weinstein were afraid to do so.
The protesting Evergreen students—and the faculty and administrators
who encouraged them—repeatedly displayed all three of the Great Untruths.
For example, one professor who supported the protesters addressed some of
her faculty colleagues in an angry monologue that included a line similar to
the Untruth of Fragility (What doesn’t kill you makes you weaker): “I am too
tired. This shit is literally going to kill me.”104
A student illustrated the Untruth of Emotional Reasoning (Always trust
your feelings) at the large town-hall meeting when she used her own anxiety
as evidence that something was very wrong at Evergreen: “I want to cry, I
can’t tell you how fast my heart is beating. I am shaking in my boots.”105
And of course, the entire episode was an illustration of the Untruth of Us
Versus Them (Life is a battle between good people and evil people). The
protesting students and their faculty supporters engaged in a giant game of
common-enemy identity politics by interpreting a politically progressive
college and its politically progressive leadership and faculty as exemplars of
white supremacy in action. As one student who refused to join the protesters
later put it while testifying before the college trustees, “If you offer any kind of
alternative viewpoint, you’re ‘the enemy.’”106

Evergreen State College is not typical. With the exception of the “Milo
riot” at UC Berkeley, its meltdown into anarchy in the spring of 2017 is more
extreme than anything else that has happened in recent decades on an
American college campus, as far as we know. We have presented its story in
detail because it is a warning to everyone who cares about students or
universities. The Evergreen story shows what is possible when political
diversity is reduced to very low levels, when the school’s leadership is weak
and easily intimidated, and when professors and administrators allow or even
encourage the propagation of the three Great Untruths.

In Sum
Humans are tribal creatures who readily form groups to compete with
other groups (as we saw in chapter 3). Sociologist Emile Durkheim’s
work illuminates the way those groups engage in rituals—including the
collective punishment of deviance—to enhance their cohesion and
solidarity.
Cohesive and morally homogeneous groups are prone to witch hunts,
particularly when they experience a threat, whether from outside or
from within.
Witch hunts generally have four properties: they seem to come out of
nowhere; they involve charges of crimes against the collective; the
offenses that lead to those charges are often trivial or fabricated; and
people who know that the accused is innocent keep quiet, or in extreme
cases, they join the mob.
Some of the most puzzling campus events and trends since 2015 match
the profile of a witch hunt. The campus protests at Yale, Claremont
McKenna, and Evergreen all began as reactions to politely worded
emails, and all led to demands that the authors of the emails be fired.
(We repeat that the concerns that provide the context for a witch hunt
may be valid, but in a witch hunt, the attendant fears are channeled in
unjust and destructive ways.)
The new trend in 2017 for professors to join open letters denouncing
their colleagues and demanding the retraction or condemnation of

their work (as happened to Rebecca Tuvel, Amy Wax, and others) also
fits this pattern. In all of these cases, colleagues of the accused were
afraid to publicly stand up and defend them.
Viewpoint diversity reduces a community’s susceptibility to witch
hunts. One of the most important kinds of viewpoint diversity,
diversity of political thought, has declined substantially among both
professors and students at American universities since the 1990s. These
declines, combined with the rapidly escalating political polarization of
the United States (which is our focus in the next chapter), may be part
of the reason why the new culture of safetyism has spread so rapidly
since its emergence around 2013.
This concludes Part II of this book. In these two chapters, we examined
some dramatic events that occurred on American college campuses in the two
years after we published our article in The Atlantic, laying out our concerns
about cognitive distortions on campus. The new campus trends make a lot
more sense once you understand the three Great Untruths and can spot them
in action. In Part III, we’ll ask: Why, and why now? Where did the three
Great Untruths and the culture of safetyism come from, and why did they
spread so quickly in the last few years?

PART III

How Did We Get Here?

CHAPTER 6

The Polarization Cycle
For every action, there is an equal and opposite reaction.
Isaac Newton’s third law of motion

W

e began this book with a presentation of three Great Untruths—
ideas so out of tune with human flourishing that they harm anyone
who embraces them. In Part II, we narrated a variety of campus
events that have attracted national and sometimes global attention, and we
showed how some students and professors involved in these events seem to
have embraced the Great Untruths. Now, in Part III, we widen the lens and
look at how we got here. Why did a set of interrelated ideas—which we have
called a culture of safetyism—sweep through many universities between 2013
and 2017? Students who graduated from college in 2012 generally tell us that
they saw little evidence of these trends. Students who began college at some
elite universities in 2013 or 2014 tell us they saw the new culture arrive over
the course of their four years. What is going on?
There is no simple answer. In Part III, we present six interacting
explanatory threads: rising political polarization and cross-party animosity;
rising levels of teen anxiety and depression; changes in parenting practices;
the decline of free play; the growth of campus bureaucracy; and a rising
passion for justice in response to major national events, combined with
changing ideas about what justice requires. We believe that it is impossible to
understand the state of higher education today without understanding all six.
Before we present these threads, however, we must make two points explicitly
and emphatically.

The first point is that there are different threads for different people. Part
of the complexity of our story is that not all of the threads have influenced
each person and group on campus equally. The rising political polarization in
the United States, in which universities are increasingly seen as bastions of the
left, has led to an increase in hostility and harassment from some off-campus
right-wing individuals and groups. Some of these events qualify as hate
crimes and are targeted especially at Jews and people of color. We discuss that
thread in this chapter. Rising rates of teen depression and anxiety affect both
boys and girls but have hit young women particularly hard (as you’ll see in
chapter 7). The rise in overprotective or “helicopter” parenting and the
decline of free play (chapters 8 and 9) have negatively affected kids from
wealthier families (mostly white and Asian)1 more than kids from working
class or poor families. The increase in the number of campus administrators,
along with the scope of their duties, may be having an effect at all schools
(chapter 10), but new ideas and stronger passions about social justice may
matter most on campuses where students are more engaged politically
(chapter 11).
The second point is that this is a book about good intentions gone awry.
In all of the six chapters in this part of the book, you’ll read about people
primarily acting from good or noble motivations. In most cases, the motive is
to help or protect children or people seen as vulnerable or victimized. But as
we all know, the road to hell can be paved with good intentions. Our goal in
Part III is not to blame; it is to understand. Only by identifying and analyzing
all six explanatory threads can we begin to talk about possible solutions,
which we do in Part IV.

The Boiling Point
In the last two chapters, we told many stories about students and faculty
reacting to words in ways that seemed inappropriate, over-the-top, and in
some cases, aggressive. Whether about a response to an email, an effort to
shout a speaker down, or a petition to denounce a colleague, the stories in this
book have mostly presented problems on campus that arise from a part of the
political left. Sometimes the targets were on the right (such as Heather Mac

Donald and Amy Wax), but more often the targets were themselves on the
left (such as Nicholas and Erika Christakis, Rebecca Tuvel, Bret Weinstein,
and the professors who taught the humanities course at Reed College). If we
were to limit our analysis to events on campus, this would be most of the
story. A set of new ideas about speech, violence, and safety has emerged on
the far left in recent years, and the debate on campus is largely a debate within
the left, pitting (mostly) older progressives, who generally have an expansive
notion of free speech, against (mostly) younger progressives, who are more
likely to support some limitations on speech in the name of inclusion.2
But if we step back and look at American universities as complex
institutions nested within a larger society that has been growing steadily more
divided, angry, and polarized, we begin to see the left and the right locked
into a game of mutual provocation and reciprocal outrage that is an essential
piece of the puzzle we are trying to solve in this book. Allison Stanger, the
Middlebury professor who suffered a concussion at the hands of protesters,
said exactly this in a New York Times essay titled “Understanding the Angry
Mob at Middlebury That Gave Me a Concussion.”3 In it, she wrote:
In the days after the violence, some have spun this story as one about
what’s wrong with elite colleges and universities, our coddled youth or
intolerant liberalism. Those analyses are incomplete. Political life and
discourse in the United States is at a boiling point, and nowhere is the
reaction to that more heightened than on college campuses.

She next listed several of the ways in which President Trump had insulted
or offended members of marginalized groups while inspiring hateful speech
among many of his followers, and added: “That is the context into which Dr.
Murray walked [where he] was so profoundly misunderstood.”
We agree with Stanger that the national political context is an essential
part of any story about what has been happening on college campuses in
recent years. Things are indeed at a “boiling point” in the United States. You
can see the temperature rising in the next two figures.
Figure 6.1 comes from the Pew Research Center, which in 1994 began
asking a nationally representative sample of Americans about their level of
agreement with a set of ten policy statements, and repeated the survey every
few years. The policy statements include “Government regulation of business

usually does more harm than good,” “Immigrants today are a burden on our
country because they take our jobs, housing, and healthcare,” and “The best
way to ensure peace is through military strength.”4 Pew computes how far
apart members of different groups are on each issue, then takes the average of
the absolute values of those differences across all ten statements. As you can
see in the line near the bottom marked “Gender,” men and women are just
about the same distance apart in 2017 (7 points) as they were in 1994 (9
points). Only two of the lines show a clear increase. People who attend
religious services regularly are now 11 points away from those who never
attend, compared to just 5 points apart in 1994. But that 6-point increase is
dwarfed by the 21-point increase in the distance between Republicans and
Democrats over the same time period, nearly all of it occurring since 2004.
Issue Polarization

FIGURE 6.1. The distance between Republicans and Democrats, on a set of 10 policy

questions, has grown very large since 2004. Differences by race, gender, education,
and age have not changed much since 1994. (Source: Pew Research Center.)

If the people on the “other side” are moving farther and farther away from
you on a broad set of moral and political issues, it stands to reason that you
would feel more and more negatively toward them. Figure 6.2 shows that this
has been happening. Every two years, the American National Election Study
measures Americans’ attitudes on a variety of topics. In part of the survey, the
researchers use a “feeling thermometer,” which is a set of questions asking
respondents to rate a variety of groups and institutions on a scale where 0 is
defined as “very cold or unfavorable” and 100 is defined as “very warm or
favorable.” The top two lines in the graph show that when Republicans and
Democrats are asked to rate their own party, the lines are in positive territory
and haven’t moved much since the 1970s.5 The bottom two lines show what
they think about the other party. These lines have always been in negative
territory, but many will be surprised to see that the cross-party ratings weren’t
all that negative from the 1970s until 1990—they hovered in the 40s. It’s only
in the 1990s that the lines begin to drop, with a plunge between 2008 and
2012 (the years of the Tea Party and Occupy Wall Street).
Affective Polarization

FIGURE 6.2. Affective partisan polarization. Americans’ feelings toward their own

party have barely changed since the 1970s, but Americans have become increasingly
“cold” or hostile toward the other party since the 1990s. (Source: American National
Election Study,6 plotted by Iyengar and Krupenkin, 2018.)

Why is this happening? There are many reasons, but in order to make
sense of America’s current predicament, you have to start by recognizing that
the mid-twentieth century was a historical anomaly—a period of unusually
low political polarization and cross-party animosity7 combined with generally
high levels of social trust and trust in government.8 From the 1940s to around
1980, American politics was about as centrist and bipartisan as it has ever
been. One reason is that, during and prior to this period, the country faced a
series of common challenges and enemies, including the Great Depression,
the Axis Powers during World War II, and the Soviets during the Cold War.
Given the psychology of tribalism that we described in chapter 3, the loss of a
common enemy after the collapse of the Soviet Union can be expected to lead
to more intratribal conflict.
A second major reason is that, since the 1970s, Americans have been
increasingly self-segregating into politically homogeneous communities, as
Bill Bishop showed in his influential 2008 book, The Big Sort: Why the
Clustering of Like-Minded America Is Tearing Us Apart. Subsequent research
has shown that we live in increasingly economically and politically segregated
communities right down to the city block.9 The two major political parties
have sorted themselves along similar lines: as the Republican Party becomes
disproportionately older, white, rural, male, and Christian, the Democratic
Party is increasingly young, nonwhite, urban, female, and nonreligious.10 As
political scientists Shanto Iyengar and Masha Krupenkin put it, “The result is
that today, differences in party affiliation go hand in glove with differences in
world view and individuals’ sense of social and cultural identity.”11
A third major reason is the media environment, which has changed in
ways that foster division. Long gone is the time when everybody watched one
of three national television networks. By the 1990s, there was a cable news
channel for most points on the political spectrum, and by the early 2000s
there was a website or discussion group for every conceivable interest group
and grievance. By the 2010s, most Americans were using social media sites
like Facebook and Twitter, which make it easy to encase oneself within an
echo chamber. And then there’s the “filter bubble,” in which search engines
and YouTube algorithms are designed to give you more of what you seem to
be interested in, leading conservatives and progressives into disconnected
moral matrices backed up by mutually contradictory informational worlds.12
Both the physical and the electronic isolation from people we disagree with

allow the forces of confirmation bias, groupthink, and tribalism to push us
still further apart.
A fourth reason is the increasingly bitter hostility in Congress. The
Democrats controlled the House of Representatives for about sixty years, with
only brief interruptions in the mid- to late twentieth century, but their
dominance ended in 1994, when the Republicans swept to victory under
Newt Gingrich, who became Speaker of the House. Gingrich then imposed a
set of reforms intended to discourage his many new members from forging
the sort of personal relationships across party lines that had been normal in
previous decades.13 For example, Gingrich changed the work schedule to
ensure that all business was done midweek, and then he encouraged his
members not to move their families from their home districts, and instead fly
to Washington for a few days each week. Gingrich wanted a more cohesive
and combative Republican team, and he got it. The more combative norms
then filtered up to the Senate as well (though in weaker form). With control
shifting back and forth several times since 1995, and with so much at stake
with each shift, norms of civility and possibilities for bipartisanship have
nearly disappeared. As political scientists Steven Levitsky and Daniel Ziblatt
put it, “Parties [have] come to view each other not as legitimate rivals but as
dangerous enemies. Losing ceases to be an accepted part of the political
process and instead becomes a catastrophe.”14
These four trends, plus many more,15 have combined to produce a very
unfortunate change in the dynamics of American politics, which political
scientists call negative partisanship. In a recent review of data on “affective
polarization” (the degree to which members of each party feel negatively
toward the other party), Iyengar and Krupenkin summarize the change like
this:
Prior to the era of polarization, ingroup favoritism, that is, partisans’
enthusiasm for their party or candidate, was the driving force behind
political participation. More recently, however, it is hostility toward the outparty that makes people more inclined to participate.16

In other words, Americans are now motivated to leave their couches to
take part in political action not by love for their party’s candidate but by
hatred of the other party’s candidate. Negative partisanship means that

American politics is driven less by hope and more by the Untruth of Us
Versus Them. “They” must be stopped, at all costs.
This is an essential part of our story. Americans now bear such animosity
toward one another that it’s almost as if many are holding up signs saying,
“Please tell me something horrible about the other side, I’ll believe anything!”
Americans are now easily exploitable, and a large network of profit-driven
media sites, political entrepreneurs, and foreign intelligence agencies are
taking advantage of this vulnerability.
The vulnerability comes with an unfortunate asymmetry: the faculty and
students at universities have shifted to the left since the 1990s, as we showed
in the last chapter, while the “outrage industry” of talk radio, cable news
networks, and conspiracy websites is more developed and effective on the
right.17 (The mainstream media overall leans left,18 but the left simply never
found a format or formula that could match the influence of Rush Limbaugh,
Glenn Beck, and Sean Hannity.) Right-wing media has long loved to make
fun of professors and stir up anger over “politically correct” practices spotted
on university campuses. But as campus activism increased in 2015 and
offered up an unending stream of dramatic cell phone videos (including
students cursing at professors and shouting down speakers), right-wing
media outlets began to devote far more attention to campus events, which
they portrayed gleefully, usually stripped of any explanatory context. The
rising expressions of anger from the left on campus, sometimes directed
against conservative speakers, led to rising expressions of anger from the
right, off campus, sometimes directed in threatening ways at left-leaning
professors and students, which in turn triggered more anger from the left on
campus . . . and the cycle repeats.

Outrage From the Off-Campus Right
In the last two chapters, we examined protests, shout-downs, open letters, and
witch hunts originating from the left, because the left is the dominant force
on most college campuses (leaving aside religious and military academies).
But if we step back from campus, we see that some people and groups on the

right engage in moralistic, aggressive, and intimidating actions aimed at
campus, too.
We told the story of Evergreen State College, but we left some of its
aftermath for this chapter. As we noted, three days after the Evergreen
implosion began at Professor Weinstein’s door, when no national news
outlets were covering the chaos, Weinstein agreed to appear on the Fox News
show Tucker Carlson Tonight. After the show aired, the backlash began. Three
days after Weinstein’s appearance, a student protester posted an essay on the
website Medium reporting that a spray-painted swastika appeared on the side
of a seminar building, and that she and other protesters had been subjected to
“doxxing” by the alt-right: “The faces, names and phone numbers of student
organizers were published online on subreddits dedicated to harassing leftists
and people of color,” she wrote.19 In a New York Times essay published weeks
later, the student described protesters being harassed “with hundreds of
phone calls, anonymous texts and terrifyingly specific threats of violence that
show they know where we live and work.” She also recounted finding rape
threats directed at her on online message boards.20 Sandra Kaiser, Evergreen’s
vice president for college relations, said the college received “the most
stunning wave of social-media harassment you can possibly imagine.”21 But
the mob wasn’t just “phoning it in” from far away. Although it was quickly
determined that the New Jersey man’s phone threat was not credible, rightwing extremist groups did visit campus. For example, the neo-Nazi group
Atomwaffen Division placed posters on campus buildings reading BLACK LIVES
DON’T MATTER and JOIN YOUR LOCAL NAZIS. Then they posted a video depicting
their members, dressed in black, with faces obscured, walking across campus
at night, taping up those posters.22
In physics, as Newton’s law tells us, every action produces an equal and
opposite reaction. In a polarization spiral, however, for every action there is a
disproportionate reaction. Many critics of campus protesters in 2015 accused
them of overreacting to small things (such as Dean Spellman’s email at
Claremont McKenna). But beginning in late 2016, we began to see more
examples of off-campus overreaction from the right in response to speech by
professors on the left.
Lisa Durden, an adjunct professor at Essex County College in Newark,
New Jersey, was hired in the spring of 2017 to teach Mass Communication
and Popular Culture, as well as essay writing. Before coming to Essex, Durden

was a motivational speaker, hosted her own talk show, appeared on various
networks as a pop culture expert, and worked as a TV and movie producer.
Then, on June 6, 2017, she appeared on Tucker Carlson’s show to defend a
Black Lives Matter “all-black” Memorial Day party (at which she was not
present) in Brooklyn, New York. At one point, in response to Carlson’s
antagonistic questioning, she responded: “Boo-hoo-hoo. You white people
are angry because you couldn’t use your ‘white privilege’ card to get
invited.”23
Admittedly, what she said was provocative. But the “all-black” event was
not at the college, so Durden wasn’t defending the exclusion of white students
—in fact, no one has ever alleged that Durden discriminated against students.
Nonetheless, Durden’s television appearance was met by wrath from the
right; she received hate mail and anonymous threats, which included “I will
come to your house and kill you dumb black bitch” and “Talk to me like you
did that guy on Fox News, and I would beat you to a broken pulp and kick
your throat in you racist devil.” Durden showed us many more, which we will
not reprint here, but suffice it to say, they were horrifically racist, sexist, and
threatening.
The barrage of vitriol and the threats of violence have had a lasting effect
on Durden. “I still get knots in my stomach whenever I think about it or talk
about it,” she told us in an email. “People say that things will get better
because that’s the politically correct thing to say to someone in my position.
But things don’t always get better, they sometimes get worse. And that’s how I
am feeling.”24 To make matters worse, the college suspended Durden and
launched an investigation, claiming they had been “immediately inundated”
with complaints.25 FIRE filed records requests to see those alleged complaints,
which Essex County College ignored until FIRE filed a lawsuit. As it turned
out, the supposed deluge of complaints before the suspension amounted to a
single email.26 Nonetheless, on June 23, the college president announced that
Durden had been fired.27 Despite all of this, Durden tells us unequivocally
that she doesn’t regret speaking out.
Professor Durden’s story is not unique. On Christmas Eve 2016, George
Ciccariello-Maher, a professor at Drexel University in Philadelphia, posted
the provocative tweet “All I want for Christmas is White Genocide.” The
tweet went viral, amplified by a Russia-linked Twitter account pretending to
be based in Tennessee.28 Taken at face value, the tweet sounds horrifying, but

its meaning changes once you learn that “white genocide” is a term used by
white nationalist groups to express their fear that mass immigration and
racial intermarriage will eventually lead to the extinction of white people. As
Ciccariello-Maher later explained: “‘White genocide’ is an idea invented by
white supremacists and used to denounce everything from interracial
relationships to multicultural policies. . . . It is a figment of the racist
imagination, it should be mocked, and I’m glad to have mocked it.”29 Despite
initially promising Ciccariello-Maher that he would not face punishment for
the tweet, Drexel quietly initiated an investigation in February 2017 and later
barred him from campus, citing “safety concerns.” The investigation ended
only because he resigned at the end of December 2017, one year after the
initial tweet.30 Ciccariello-Maher said he was subjected to “nearly a year of
harassment by right-wing, white-supremacist media outlets and internet
mobs, after death threats and threats of violence” were directed against him
and his family.31
On May 20, 2017, Princeton professor Keeanga-Yamahtta Taylor, author
of From #BlackLivesMatter to Black Liberation, gave a commencement speech
at Hampshire College in which she called President Trump “a racist and
sexist megalomaniac” who poses a threat to students’ futures. The next week,
Fox News publicized excerpts from her speech, which they called an “antiPOTUS tirade.”32 By May 31, Taylor reported having received “more than
fifty hate-filled and threatening emails,” some containing “specific threats of
violence, including murder,” as well as “lynching and having the bullet from a
.44 Magnum put in [her] head.”33 Out of concern for her safety and that of
her family, Taylor canceled her future scheduled speeches.
Conservative readers may dismiss the three cases we just presented on the
grounds that the professors said things that were aggressive or deliberately
provocative, so what did they expect the reaction to be? Progressives may see
the humor in “white genocide,” but if you make genocide jokes on Twitter,
you’ve got to expect some people to take you literally. Therefore, one might
conclude that if the three professors had spoken in a more deliberative style,
befitting a professor, they would have had no trouble. But speaking in a
scholarly way is not necessarily enough. In June 2017, Sarah Bond, an
assistant professor of classics at the University of Iowa, published an article in
an online arts magazine, Hyperallergic, titled “Why We Need to Start Seeing
the Classical World in Color.”34 The title refers to the little-known fact that

ancient Greek and Roman statues were usually painted with skin tones and
bright colors, but when these buried and weathered statues were rediscovered
during the Renaissance, the paint had worn off. Renaissance artists and their
patrons believed that the unadorned white marble was part of the intended
aesthetic, and these artists created new statues (such as Michelangelo’s David)
using what they mistakenly believed was the Greco-Roman ideal.35 As a result,
the white marble statues of the Renaissance have shaped our current image of
what the ancient world must have looked like: white marble statues
everywhere.
According to Bond, the erroneous idea that the Romans viewed white
marble as depicting the idealized human form led to the idea among scholars
in the nineteenth century that Romans were “white” (although there was no
concept of a “white” race in ancient times). Bond wrote in her essay that the
misunderstanding about white statues “provides further ammunition for
white supremacists today, including groups like Identity Evropa, who use
classical statuary as a symbol of white male superiority.”36 This strikes us as a
novel and interesting idea, which Bond illustrates with compelling
photographs and links to academic articles. Regardless of her thoughtful and
academic presentation, the outrage machine went into action.
UNIVERSITY PROF: USING WHITE MARBLE IN SCULPTURES IS RACIST AND CREATES
“WHITE SUPREMACY,” read one headline.37 IOWA UNIVERSITY PROFESSOR SAYS
“WHITE MARBLE” ACTUALLY INFLUENCES “WHITE SUPREMACIST” IDEAS, read

another.38 On Twitter, Bond was called an “SJW moron” and people tweeted
that they hoped she would be fired or die.39 She received death threats, calls
for her firing, and a deluge of other online abuse.40 One headline captured
how the polarization spiral looks from the right: LIBERAL PROFESSORS SAY
BIZARRE THINGS—AND THEN BLAME THE CONSERVATIVE MEDIA FOR REPORTING ON
THEM.41 (The view from the left might very well be LIBERAL PROFESSORS SAY
THINGS—AND THEN CONSERVATIVE MEDIA REPORT THEM AS IF PROFESSORS ARE
CRAZY.)

The polarization cycle influencing university life since 2017 typically
proceeds in this sequence:42
1. A left-wing professor says or writes something provocative or
inflammatory on social media, in mainstream media, in a lecture, or
(less often) in an academic publication. The statement is often a

reaction to perceived injustices committed by right-wing groups or
politicians off campus. A video clip or screen shot is then shared on
social media.
2. Right-wing media outlets pick up the story and then retell it in ways
that amplify the outrage, often taking it out of context and sometimes
distorting the facts.43
3. Dozens or even hundreds of people who hear about it write angry
posts or comments on social media, or send emails to the professor,
often including racist or sexist slurs, sometimes including threats of
rape or death. Some people publicly call for the university to fire the
professor.
4. Meanwhile, the college administration fails to defend the professor.
Sometimes an investigation follows, and sometimes the professor is
put on leave. Professors who are untenured are at high risk of being
fired or of not having their contracts renewed.
5. Most partisans who hear any part of the story find that it confirms
their worst beliefs about the other side. The right focuses on what the
professor said or wrote. The left focuses on the racist/sexist reaction
to it. With their anger fortified, people on both sides are primed to
repeat the cycle.
This pattern is different from the pattern when professors arouse the ire of
students on campus, and calling someone racist or demanding that they be
disinvited is in no way equivalent to making rape threats or death threats.
That distinction is recognized in law; the First Amendment does not protect
credible rape or death threats. Those are criminal. But whether the reaction
comes from the off-campus right or the on-campus left, the response from
university leadership is usually weak and often doesn’t support the professor.
Things spiral rapidly out of control, and observers on the left and the right
draw the same conclusion: the other side is evil.
Many professors say they now teach and speak more cautiously, because
one slip or one simple misunderstanding could lead to vilification and even
threats from any number of sources.44 Add to that an insidious new problem:
professors are being closely watched because of their politics. The
conservative campus group Turning Point USA (TPUSA) even created a

“Professor Watchlist” in order to “expose and document” faculty members
“who discriminate against conservative students, promote anti-American
values and advance leftist propaganda in the classroom.”45 Many free-speech
advocates watched the unveiling of TPUSA’s watchlist with concern—after
all, the keeping of lists of disfavored ideas and the people who hold them has
a distinct and ugly history in the United States.46 These lists are meant as a
warning for those on them to watch what they say. Provoking uncomfortable
thoughts is an essential part of a professor’s role, but professors now have
reason to worry that provocative educational exercises and lines of
questioning could spell the end of their reputations and even careers.

Threat Comes to Campus
After declining for twenty-five years, reported incidents of hate crimes
increased in 2015.47 In 2016, those numbers, tracked by the FBI, rose a further
5%.48 One study of major U.S. cities from January to August 2017 suggests a
20% rise in reported hate crimes compared to the first eight months of 2016.49
It is extremely difficult to obtain accurate statistics on hate crimes, and some
widely publicized events have turned out to be hoaxes.50 Nonetheless, there is
a widespread perception on campus that hate crimes are increasing in the
Trump era, and as far as we can tell from our review of the available research,
there is some truth to that perception.
On campus, threats take concrete and sometimes terrifying forms. In
2015, a white student at Missouri University of Science and Technology was
arrested for posting on social media that he was going to the Mizzou campus
(the main campus of the University of Missouri), where black students were
protesting, and would “shoot every black person” he saw.51 This happened
five months after Dylann Roof murdered nine black parishioners in a church
in Charleston, South Carolina. In October 2017, a white University of
Maryland student was charged with murder and a hate crime after stabbing to
death Richard Collins III, a visiting Bowie State student, who was apparently
targeted for being black.52
In the aftermath of the murder of Heather Heyer and the violence at the
white supremacists’ march through Charlottesville, the physical threat posed

by the alt-right and neo-Nazis became far more real for many observers who
might have previously thought the alt-right was limited to internet trolls. In
October 2017, only two months after the Charlottesville march, avowed white
nationalist Richard Spencer spoke at the University of Florida. An hour and a
half after Spencer’s speech ended, three men proclaiming to be white
nationalists drove their car over to a group of protesters at a bus stop and
began to yell neo-Nazi chants at them. After one of the protesters hit the rear
window of the vehicle with a baton, the three men jumped out of the car,
reportedly yelling, “I’m going to fucking kill you!” and “Shoot them!” One of
the white nationalists, Tyler Tenbrink, was carrying a gun. He fired one shot,
missing the protesters, and then the men fled. All three were later caught and
charged with attempted homicide.53 Months later, at Wayne State University
in Michigan, a student pulled a knife during a dispute with a group that was
handing out pamphlets in favor of immigrants’ rights. He said he wanted to
“kill all illegals that don’t belong in our country.”54
Students of color facing ongoing threats to their safety, and seeing
frequent reports of threats elsewhere, are not new phenomena; the history of
race in America is a history of discrimination and intimidation, intertwined
with a history of progress. And yet, this new wave of racial intimidation may
be particularly upsetting because of recent progress. In 2008, with the election
of Barack Obama, many Americans had the sense that the country had turned
a corner in its struggle with racism.55 In late 2016, college students in the
United States had spent the previous eight years in a country with a black
president, and most experts and pundits were telling them to expect a
transition to the country’s first female president. The shock of Trump’s
victory must have been particularly disillusioning for many black students
and left-leaning women. Between the president’s repeated racial provocations
and the increased visibility of neo-Nazis and their ilk, it became much more
plausible than it had been in a long time that “white supremacy,” even using a
narrow definition, was not just a relic of the distant past.
We close this chapter by repeating Allison Stanger’s assessment: “Political
life and discourse in the United States is at a boiling point, and nowhere is the
reaction to that more heightened than on college campuses.” This is the
context in which today’s college students are trying to make sense of major
national events and are reacting to seemingly small local incidents. We have
suggested throughout this book that some interpretations of events are more

constructive than others, but our point in this chapter is that there are reasons
why students are doing what they are doing. There is a backstory. There is a
national context. The polarization spiral and the growth of negative
partisanship are influencing political activity all across the country, driving
many Americans to embrace the Untruth of Us Versus Them.
In the next three chapters, we’ll show that it is not just the college
campuses that have been changing; it is also the young people coming into
them. Changes in adolescent mental health and in the nature of American
childhood may have rendered many current students more easily burned by
the “boiling” that they find once they arrive on campus.

In Sum
The United States has experienced a steady increase in at least one form
of polarization since the 1980s: affective (or emotional) polarization,
which means that people who identify with either of the two main
political parties increasingly hate and fear the other party and the
people in it. This is our first of six explanatory threads that will help us
understand what has been changing on campus.
Affective polarization in the United States is roughly symmetrical, but
as university students and faculty have shifted leftward during a time of
rising cross-party hatred, universities have begun to receive less trust
and more hostility from some conservatives and right-leaning
organizations.56
Beginning in 2016, the number of high-profile cases of professors being
hounded or harassed from the right for something they said in an
interview or on social media began to increase.
Rising political polarization, accompanied by increases in racial and
political provocation from the right, usually directed from off-campus
to on-campus targets, is an essential part of the story of why behavior is
changing on campus, particularly since 2016.

CHAPTER 7

Anxiety and Depression
Depressed people often stick pins into their own life rafts. The conscious
mind can intervene. One is not helpless.
ANDREW SOLOMON, The Noonday Demon: An Atlas of Depression1

T

he second of our six explanatory threads is the rise in rates of
depression and anxiety among American adolescents in the 2010s.
These mood disorders have many close relationships with the three
Great Untruths.
Here is a first-person account of depression. It is not from an adolescent,
but it illustrates Andrew Solomon’s statement above, about how the
conscious mind can intervene:
I had spent the day scouring websites for ways to kill myself. At almost
every turn, I found stories about how a method could fail, leaving you still
alive but permanently injured. This even applied to shooting yourself. I
could not risk that, so I went to the hardware store across the street, looking
for strong plastic bags and metal wire. The idea was to crush up all the
sleep meds, tranquilizers, and anti-anxiety meds I had, take them all at
once, and then wrap my head so that even if the pills did not kill me,
suffocation would. But it had to be strong enough that I could not claw my
way out of the bag if I had a change of heart.
I needed to go through with it now, as quickly as possible. Because . . .
why? Because it was the right thing to do, and if I waited, I might not go
through with it, and I needed to go through with it while I had the will. If I felt
better later, it would somehow be a lie. I had a powerful sense that I was in
touch with some dark, larger truth: that I needed to die.

I don’t know if it was briefly sensing how strange this thought was that
gave me that tiny flash of sanity that caused me to call 911. First, I started
to explain what I had planned in a detached way, but soon I was crying. The
voice on the other side of the line told me to get myself to a hospital right
away. I listened.
I spent the next three days of December 2007 at a psychiatric facility in
North Philadelphia. I was already scheduled to move from Philadelphia,
where I felt utterly isolated, back to New York City, where I had friends and
family. I found a doctor who was the first person in years to reduce—rather
than increase—my meds. And I started cognitive behavioral therapy as
soon as I moved to New York.
At first, it seemed to make little difference. The doctor showed me time
and time again how I used every bit of brain power to support a view of
myself—a schema—that said I was a hopeless, broken person. I did my
CBT exercises twice a day, and I gradually came to recognize my angry,
flailing, defensive mind trying to protect that nasty vision of myself.
There was no “eureka” moment. My rational mind could understand that
my thoughts were distorted, but nothing changed until it simply became a
habit to hear the cruelest, craziest, and most destructive voices in my head
without believing I had to act on them. When I stopped letting those voices
win, they got quieter. Thanks to CBT, my mind is now in the habit of hearing
my worst thoughts as if they are speaking in silly cartoon voices. While I still
get depressed, the frequency and severity of those bouts are nowhere near
as powerful as they used to be.

The author of this account is Greg. He believes that CBT saved his life. In
a matter of just a few months, he began to learn how to catch his own
distortions. And once he learned to spot them in himself, he started to hear
them coming from other people, too. Once you are accustomed to looking for
them, it’s not very hard to identify catastrophizing, dichotomous thinking,
labeling, and all the rest.
Almost as soon as he started practicing CBT, in 2008, Greg noticed, in his
work as the president of FIRE, that administrators on campus were
sometimes modeling cognitive distortions for students. Administrators often
acted in ways that gave the impression that students were in constant danger
and in need of protection from a variety of risks and discomforts (as we’ll
discuss in chapter 10). But back then, Millennial students mostly rolled their
eyes at administrative overreaction. It was only when the first members of
iGen started entering college, around 2013, that Greg began to notice this

more fearful attitude about speech coming from the students themselves. In
the new discussions about safe spaces, trigger warnings, microaggressions,
and speech as violence, students often employed arguments and justifications
that seemed to come right out of the CBT training manual. That’s why Greg
invited Jon to lunch in 2014, and that’s why we wrote our Atlantic article in
2015.
In that essay, we briefly discussed changes in childhood in the United
States, such as the decline in unsupervised time and the recent rise of social
media, but we focused our attention on what was happening after students
arrived at college. At the time, we had just begun to hear the first alarms being
raised by college mental health professionals, who said they were being
overwhelmed by rising demand.2 We suggested that perhaps some of the very
things colleges were doing to protect students from words and ideas ended up
increasing the demand for mental health services by inadvertently increasing
the use of cognitive distortions.
By 2017, however, it was clear we had misunderstood what was going on.
Colleges were not the primary cause of the wave of mental illness among their
students; rather, the students seeking help were part of a much larger national
wave of adolescent anxiety and depression unlike anything seen in modern
times. Colleges were struggling to cope with rapidly rising numbers of
students who were suffering from mental illness—primarily mood disorders.3
The new culture of safetyism can be understood in part as an effort by some
students, faculty, and administrators to remake the campus in response to
this new trend. If more students say they feel threatened by certain kinds of
speech, then more protections should be offered. Our basic message in this
book is that this way of thinking may be wrong; college students are
antifragile, not fragile. Some well-intended protections may backfire and
make things worse in the long run for the very students we are trying to help.
In this chapter, we explore recent findings on the declining mental health
of American adolescents. There is some evidence that similar trends may be
happening in Canada4 and the United Kingdom,5 although the evidence in
those countries is not as clear and consistent as it is in the United States.6 In
all three countries, girls seem to be more affected than boys. How is mental
health changing, on campus and off, and why did the new culture of safetyism
emerge only after 2013?

iGen
In the 2017 book iGen (which we discussed briefly in chapter 1), Jean
Twenge, a social psychologist at San Diego State University, gives us the most
detailed picture yet of the behavior, values, and mental state of today’s
teenagers and college students. Twenge is an expert on how generations differ
psychologically and why. She calls the generation after the Millennials iGen
(like iPhone), which is short for “internet generation,” because they are the
first generation to grow up with the internet in their pockets. (Some people
use the term Generation Z.) Sure, the oldest Millennials, born in 1982,
searched for music and MapQuest directions using Netscape and AltaVista
on their Compaq home computers in the late 1990s, but search engines don’t
change social relationships. Social media does.
Marking the line between generations is always difficult, but based on
their psychological profiles, Twenge suggests that 1994 is the last birth year
for Millennials, and 1995 is the first birth year for iGen. One possible reason
for the discontinuity in self-reported traits and attitudes between Millennials
and iGen is that in 2006, when iGen’s oldest were turning eleven, Facebook
changed its membership requirement. No longer did you have to prove
enrollment in a college; now any thirteen-year-old—or any younger child
willing to claim to be thirteen—could join.
But Facebook and other social media platforms didn’t really draw many
middle school students until after the iPhone was introduced (in 2007) and
was widely adopted over the next few years. It’s best, then, to think about the
entire period from 2007 to roughly 2012 as a brief span in which the social life
of the average American teen changed substantially. Social media platforms
proliferated, and adolescents began using Twitter (founded in 2006), Tumblr
(2007), Instagram (2010), Snapchat (2011), and a variety of others. Over time,
these companies became ever more skilled at grabbing and holding “eyeballs,”
as they say in the industry. Social media grew more and more addictive. In a
chilling 2017 interview, Sean Parker, the first president of Facebook,
explained those early years like this:
The thought process that went into building these applications, Facebook
being the first of them . . . was all about: “How do we consume as much of

your time and conscious attention as possible?” . . . And that means that we
need to sort of give you a little dopamine hit every once in a while, because
someone liked or commented on a photo or a post or whatever. And that’s
going to get you to contribute more content, and that’s going to get you . . .
more likes and comments. . . . It’s a social-validation feedback loop . . .
exactly the kind of thing that a hacker like myself would come up with,
because you’re exploiting a vulnerability in human psychology.7

Earlier in the interview, he said, “God only knows what it’s doing to our
children’s brains.”
In short, iGen is the first generation that spent (and is now spending) its
formative teen years immersed in the giant social and commercial experiment
of social media. What could go wrong?
Twenge’s book is based on her deep dives into four surveys that stretch
back several decades. One survey focuses on college students, two of them
focus on teenagers more generally, and one samples the entire U.S. adult
population. Her book contains dozens of graphs she created from these four
datasets, showing changes in teen behavior and attitudes since the 1980s or
1990s. The lines mostly amble along horizontally until some point between
2005 and 2012, at which point they arc upward or plunge downward. Some of
the trends are quite positive: members of iGen drink less and smoke less; they
are safer drivers and are waiting longer to have sex. But other trends are less
positive, and some are quite distressing. The subtitle of the book summarizes
her findings: Why Today’s Super-Connected Kids Are Growing Up Less
Rebellious, More Tolerant, Less Happy—and Completely Unprepared for
Adulthood—and What That Means for the Rest of Us.
Twenge’s analyses suggest that there are two major generational changes
that may be driving the rise of safetyism on campus since 2013. The first is
that kids now grow up much more slowly. Activities that are commonly
thought to mark the transition from childhood to adulthood are happening
later—for example, having a job, driving a car, drinking alcohol, going out on
a date, and having sex. Members of iGen wait longer to do these things— and
then do less of them—than did members of previous generations. Instead of
engaging in these activities (which usually involve interacting with other
people face-to-face), teens today are spending much more time alone,
interacting with screens.8 Of special importance, the combination of

helicopter parenting, fears for children’s safety, and the allure of screens
means that members of iGen spend much less time than previous generations
did going out with friends while unsupervised by an adult.
The bottom line is that when members of iGen arrived on campus,
beginning in the fall of 2013, they had accumulated less unsupervised time
and fewer offline life experiences than had any previous generation. As
Twenge puts it, “18-year-olds now act like 15-year-olds used to, and 13-yearolds like 10-year-olds. Teens are physically safer than ever, yet they are more
mentally vulnerable.”9 Most of these trends are showing up across social
classes, races, and ethnicities.10 Members of iGen, therefore, may not (on
average) be as ready for college as were eighteen-year-olds of previous
generations. This might explain why college students are suddenly asking for
more protection and adult intervention in their affairs and interpersonal
conflicts.
The second major generational change is a rapid rise in rates of anxiety
and depression.11 We created three graphs below using the same data that
Twenge reports in iGen. The graphs are straightforward and tell a shocking
story.
Adolescent Depression Rates

FIGURE 7.1. Percent of adolescents aged 12–17 who had at least one major depressive

episode in the past year. Rates have been rising since 2011, especially for girls.
(Source: Data from National Survey on Drug Use and Health.)

Studies of mental illness have long shown that girls have higher rates of
depression and anxiety than boys do.12 The differences are small or
nonexistent before puberty, but they increase at the start of puberty. The gap
between adolescent girls and boys was fairly steady in the early 2000s, but
beginning around 2011, it widened as the rate for girls grew rapidly. By 2016,
as you can see in Figure 7.1, roughly one out of every five girls reported
symptoms that met the criteria for having experienced a major depressive
episode in the previous year.13 The rate for boys went up, too, but more slowly
(from 4.5% in 2011 to 6.4% in 2016).
Have things really changed so much for teenagers just in the last seven
years? Maybe Figure 7.1 merely reflects changes in diagnostic criteria?
Perhaps the bar has been lowered for giving out diagnoses of depression, and
maybe that’s a good thing, if more people now get help?
Perhaps, but lowering the bar for diagnosis and encouraging more people
to use the language of therapy and mental illness are likely to have some
negative effects, too. Applying labels to people can create what is called a
looping effect: it can change the behavior of the person being labeled and
become a self-fulfilling prophecy.14 This is part of why labeling is such a
powerful cognitive distortion. If depression becomes part of your identity,
then over time you’ll develop corresponding schemas about yourself and your
prospects (I’m no good and my future is hopeless). These schemas will make it
harder for you to marshal the energy and focus to take on challenges that, if
you were to master them, would weaken the grip of depression. We are not
denying the reality of depression. We would never tell depressed people to
just “toughen up” and get over it—Greg knows firsthand how unhelpful that
would be. Rather, we are saying that lowering the bar (or encouraging
“concept creep”) in applying mental health labels may increase the number of
people who suffer.
Adolescent Suicide Rates (per 100,000)

FIGURE 7.2. Suicide rate per 100,000 population, ages 15–19, by sex.
(Source: CDC, Fatal Injury Reports, 1999–2016.15)

There is, tragically, strong evidence that the rising prevalence of teen
depression illustrated in Figure 7.1 is not just a result of changes in diagnostic
criteria: the teen suicide rate has been increasing in tandem with the increase
in depression. Figure 7.2 shows the annual rate of suicide for each 100,000
teens (ages fifteen to nineteen) in the U.S. population. Suicide and attempted
suicide rates vary by sex; girls make more attempts, but boys die more often
by their own hand, because they tend to use irreversible methods (such as
guns or tall buildings) more often than girls do. The boys’ suicide rate has
moved around in recent decades, surging in the 1980s during the gigantic
wave of crime and violence that receded suddenly in the 1990s. The rate of
boys’ suicide reached its highest point in 1991. While the rise since 2007 does
not bring it back up to its highest level, it is still disturbingly high. The rate for
girls, on the other hand, had been fairly constant all the way back to 1981,
when the dataset begins, and although their rate of suicide is still substantially
lower than that of boys, the steady rise since 2010 brings their rate up to the
highest levels recorded for girls since 1981. Compared to the early 2000s,
nearly twice as many teenage girls now end their own lives. In Canada, too, the

suicide rate for teen girls is rising, though not as sharply, while the rate for
teen boys has fallen.16 (In the United Kingdom, there is no apparent trend for
either gender in recent years.17)
Confirming this increase in mental illness with a different dataset, a recent
study looked at “nonfatal self-inflicted injuries.”18 These are cases in which
adolescents were admitted to emergency rooms because they had physically
harmed themselves by doing such things as cutting themselves with a razor
blade, banging their heads into walls, or drinking poison. The researchers
examined data from sixty-six U.S. hospitals going back to 2001 and were able
to estimate self-harm rates for the entire country. They found that the rate for
boys held steady at roughly 200 per hundred thousand boys in the age range
of fifteen to nineteen. The rate for girls in that age range was much higher,
but had also been relatively steady from 2001 to 2009, at around 420 per
hundred thousand girls. Beginning in 2010, however, the girls’ rate began to
rise steadily, reaching 630 per hundred thousand in 2015. The rate for
younger girls (ages ten to fourteen) rose even more quickly, nearly tripling
from roughly 110 per hundred thousand in 2009 to 318 per hundred
thousand in 2015. (The corresponding rate for boys in that age range was
around 40 throughout the period studied.) The years since 2010 have been
very hard on girls.

Antisocial Media?
What is driving this surge in mental illness and suicide? Twenge believes that
the rapid spread of smartphones and social media into the lives of teenagers,
beginning around 2007, is the main cause of the mental health crisis that
began around 2011. In her book, she presents graphs showing that digital
media use and mental health problems are correlated: they rose together in
recent years. That makes digital media a more likely candidate than, say, the
global financial crisis and its associated recession, which began in 2008. By
2011, the economy and the job market were steadily improving in the United
States, so economic factors are unlikely to be the cause of deteriorating
adolescent mental health in the following years.19

Simple correlations are suggestive, but they can’t tell us what caused what.
Lots of things were changing during that time period, so there are many
opportunities for what are called spurious correlations. For example, the
annual per capita consumption of cheese in the United States correlates
almost perfectly with the number of people who die each year from becoming
entangled in their bedsheets, but that’s not because eating cheese causes
people to sleep differently.20 That correlation is “spurious” because it’s just a
coincidence that both numbers rose steadily over the same period of time.
To avoid getting fooled by spurious correlations, we need to consider
additional variables that would be expected to change if a particular causal
explanation were true. Twenge does this by examining all the daily activities
reported by individual students, in the two datasets that include such
measures. Twenge finds that there are just two activities that are significantly
correlated with depression and other suicide-related outcomes (such as
considering suicide, making a plan, or making an actual attempt): electronic
device use (such as a smartphone, tablet, or computer) and watching TV. On
the other hand, there are five activities that have inverse relationships with
depression (meaning that kids who spend more hours per week on these
activities show lower rates of depression): sports and other forms of exercise,
attending religious services, reading books and other print media, in-person
social interactions, and doing homework.
Notice anything about the difference between the two lists? Screen versus
nonscreen. When kids use screens for two hours of their leisure time per day
or less, there is no elevated risk of depression.21 But above two hours per day,
the risks grow larger with each additional hour of screen time. Conversely,
kids who spend more time off screens, especially if they are engaged in
nonscreen social activities, are at lower risk for depression and suicidal
thinking.22 (Twenge addresses the possibility that the relationship runs the
other way—that depression is what causes kids to spend more time with their
screens—and she shows that this is unlikely to be the case.23)
Part of what’s going on may be that devices take us away from people.
Human beings are an “ultrasocial” species. Chimpanzees and dogs have very
active social lives, but as an ultrasocial species, human beings go beyond those
“social” species.24 Like bees, humans are able to work together in large groups,
with a clear division of labor. Humans love teams, team sports, synchronized
movements, and anything else that gives us the feeling of “one for all, and all

for one.” (Ultrasociality is related to the psychology of tribalism that we
talked about in chapter 3. The trick is to satisfy people’s needs to belong and
interact without activating the more defensive and potentially violent aspects
of tribalism.) Of course, social media makes it easier than ever to create large
groups, but those “virtual” groups are not the same as in-person connections;
they do not satisfy the need for belonging in the same way. As Twenge and
her coauthors put it:
It is worth remembering that humans’ neural architecture evolved under
conditions of close, mostly continuous face-to-face contact with others
(including non-visual and non-auditory contact; i.e., touch, olfaction), and
that a decrease in or removal of a system’s key inputs may risk
destabilization of the system.25

This idea is supported by Twenge’s finding that time spent using
electronic devices was not generally harmful for highly sociable kids—the
ones who spent more time than the average kid in face-to-face social
interactions.26 In other words, the potentially negative impact of screens and
social media might depend on the amount of time teens spend with other
people. But electronic devices are harmful not just because they take kids
away from face-to-face interactions; there are more insidious effects, which
are felt more strongly by girls.

Why Is It Mostly Girls Who Suffer?
The previous graphs show that mental health has deteriorated much further
among iGen girls than among iGen boys. Furthermore, to the extent that
social media seems to bear some of the blame, that may be true only for girls.
For boys, Twenge found that total screen time is correlated with bad mental
health outcomes, but time specifically using social media is not.27 Why might
social media be more harmful for girls than for boys?
There are at least two possible reasons. The first is that social media
presents “curated” versions of lives, and girls may be more adversely affected
than boys by the gap between appearance and reality. Many have observed

that for girls, more than for boys, social life revolves around inclusion and
exclusion.28 Social media vastly increases the frequency with which teenagers
see people they know having fun and doing things together—including things
to which they themselves were not invited. While this can increase FOMO
(fear of missing out), which affects both boys and girls, scrolling through
hundreds of such photos, girls may be more pained than boys by what
Georgetown University linguistics professor Deborah Tannen calls
“FOBLO”—fear of being left out.29 When a girl sees images of her friends
doing something she was invited to do but couldn’t attend (missed out), it
produces a different psychological effect than when she is intentionally not
invited (left out). And as Twenge reports, “Girls use social media more often,
giving them additional opportunities to feel excluded and lonely when they
see their friends or classmates getting together without them.” The number of
teens of all ages who feel left out, whether boys or girls, is at an all-time high,
according to Twenge, but the increase has been larger for girls. From 2010 to
2015, the percentage of teen boys who said they often felt left out increased
from 21 to 27. For girls, the percentage jumped from 27 to 40.30
Another consequence of social media curation is that girls are bombarded
with images of girls and women whose beauty is artificially enhanced, making
girls ever more insecure about their own appearance. It’s not just fashion
models whose images are altered nowadays; platforms such as Snapchat and
Instagram provide “filters” that girls use to enhance the selfies they pose for
and edit, so even their friends now seem to be more beautiful. These filters
make noses smaller, lips bigger, and skin smoother.31 This has led to a new
phenomenon: some young women now want plastic surgery to make
themselves look like they do in their enhanced selfies.32
The second reason that social media may be harder on girls is that girls
and boys are aggressive in different ways. Research by psychologist Nicki
Crick shows that boys are more physically aggressive—more likely to shove
and hit one another, and they show a greater interest in stories and movies
about physical aggression. Girls, in contrast, are more “relationally”
aggressive; they try to hurt their rivals’ relationships, reputations, and social
status—for example, by using social media to make sure other girls know who
is intentionally being left out.33 When you add it all up, there’s no overall sex
difference in total aggression, but there’s a large and consistent sex difference
in the preferred ways of harming others. (At least, that was Crick’s finding in

the 1990s, before the birth of social media.) Plus, if boys’ aggression is
generally delivered in person, then the targets of boys’ aggression can escape
from it when they go home. On social media, girls can never escape.
Given the difference in preferred forms of aggression, what would happen
if a malevolent demon put a loaded handgun into the pocket of every
adolescent in the United States? Which sex would suffer more? Boys, most
likely, because they would find gunplay more appealing and would use guns
more often to settle conflicts. On the other hand, what would happen if,
instead of guns, that same malevolent demon put a smartphone, loaded up
with social media apps, into the pocket of every adolescent? Other than the
demon part, that is more or less what happened between 2007 and 2012, and
it’s now clear that girls have suffered far more. Social media offers many
benefits to many teens: it can help to strengthen relationships as well as
damage them, and in some ways it is surely giving them valuable practice in
the art of social relationships. But it is also the greatest enabler of relational
aggression since the invention of language, and the evidence available today
suggests that girls’ mental health has suffered as a result.

iGen Goes to College
The first members of iGen started arriving on college campuses in September
2013; by May 2017, when the eldest members began graduating, the student
body at U.S. colleges was almost entirely iGen (at least in selective four-year
residential colleges). These are precisely the years in which the new culture of
safetyism seemed to emerge from out of nowhere.
These are also the years in which college mental health clinics found
themselves suddenly overwhelmed by new demand, according to many
newspaper and magazine articles profiling the lengthening waiting lists for
psychological counseling at universities across the United States.34 At the
time, these profiles of crises at individual universities seemed somewhat
anecdotal. When we were writing our Atlantic article, there was no nationally
representative survey documenting the trend. But now, three years later, there
are several.

A 2016 report by the Center for Collegiate Mental Health, using data from
139 colleges, found that by the 2015–2016 school year, half of all students
surveyed reported having attended counseling for mental health concerns.35
The report notes that the only mental health concerns that were increasing in
recent years were anxiety and depression. Confirming these upward trends
with a different dataset,36 Figure 7.3 shows the percentage of college students
who describe themselves as having a mental disorder. That number increased
from 2.7 to 6.1 for male college students between 2012 and 2016 (that’s an
increase of 126%). For female college students, it rose even more: from 5.8 to
14.5 (an increase of 150%). Regardless of whether all these students would
meet rigorous diagnostic criteria, it is clear that iGen college students think
about themselves very differently than did Millennials. The change is greatest
for women: One out of every seven women at U.S. universities now thinks of
herself as having a psychological disorder, up from just one in eighteen women
in the last years of the Millennials.
Percentage of College Students Who Say That They Have a
Psychological Disorder

FIGURE 7.3. Percentage of college students responding “yes” to the question “Do you

have [a] psychological disorder (depression, etc.).” (Source: Higher Education
Research Institute.)

These years also saw a rise in self-reports of anxiety as the reason for
seeking help. One large survey of university counseling centers found that
only 37% of students who came through their doors in 2009 and prior years
had complained about problems with anxiety—roughly on a par with the two
other leading concerns, depression and relationships.37 But beginning in 2010,
the percentage of students with anxiety complaints began to increase. It
reached 46% in 2013 and continued climbing to 51% in 2016. It is now by far
the leading problem for which college students seek treatment. These years
also saw substantial increases in rates of self-injury and suicide among college
students,38 so while part of the increase may be due to students being more
willing to self-diagnose, once again, we know that the underlying rates of
mental illness were increasing. Something was changing in the lives and
minds of adolescents before they reached college, and when growing numbers
of depressed and anxious students began arriving on campus, beginning
around 2013, it was bound to have some effect on university culture and
norms.
You can see why it was hard for us to make a strong case that universities
were causing students to become anxious and depressed by teaching them
disordered ways of thinking. Anxiety and depression rates were already rising
for all teenagers before they arrived at college, and for those who never
attended college as well. Clearly universities were not causing a national
mental health crisis; they were responding to one, and this may explain why
the practices and beliefs of safetyism spread so quickly after 2013. But
safetyism does not help students who suffer from anxiety and depression. In
fact, as we argue throughout this book, safetyism is likely to make things even
worse for students who already struggle with mood disorders. Safetyism also
inflicts collateral damage on the university’s culture of free inquiry, because it
teaches students to see words as violence and to interpret ideas and speakers
as safe versus dangerous, rather than merely as true versus false. That way of
thinking about words is likely to promote the intensification of a call-out
culture, which, of course, gives students one more reason to be anxious.
Depression and anxiety tend to go together.39 Both conditions create
strong negative emotions, which feed emotional reasoning. Anxiety changes
the brain in pervasive ways such that threats seem to jump out at the person,
even in ambiguous or harmless circumstances.40 Compared to their
nonanxious peers, anxious students are therefore more likely to perceive

danger in innocent questions (leading them to embrace the concept of
microaggressions) or in a passage of a novel (leading them to ask for a trigger
warning) or in a lecture given by a guest speaker (leading them to want the
lecturer disinvited or for someone to create a safe space as an alternative to
the lecture). Depression distorts cognition, too, and gives people much more
negative views than are warranted about themselves, other people, the world,
and the future.41 Problems loom larger and seem more pervasive. One’s
resources for dealing with those problems seem smaller, and one’s perceived
locus of control becomes more external,42 all of which discourages efforts to
act vigorously to solve problems. Repeated failures to escape from what is
perceived to be a bad situation can create a mental state that psychologist
Martin Seligman called “learned helplessness,” in which a person believes that
escape is impossible and therefore stops trying, even in new situations where
effort would be rewarded.43 Furthermore, when people are depressed, or
when their anxiety sets their threat-response system on high alert, they can
succumb to a “hostile attribution bias,” which means that they are more likely
to see hostility in benign or even benevolent people, communications, and
situations.44 Misunderstandings are more likely, and more likely to escalate
into large-scale conflicts.

Screen Time: A Caution About Caution
The rise in adolescent mental illness is very large and is found in multiple
datasets, but the percentage of that rise that can be attributed to smartphones
and screen time is small, and the evidence is more indirect. Twenge uses the
data available, and those datasets report crude measures of what kids are
doing—mostly the approximate number of hours per week spent on various
activities, including using devices. Twenge finds relationships that are
statistically significant yet still generally small in magnitude. That doesn’t
mean that the effects of smartphones are small; it just means that the amount
of variance in mental illness that we can explain right now, using existing
data, is small. If we had better measures of what kids are doing and what is
happening to their mental health, we’d be able to explain a lot more of the
variance. These problems are very new, and a lot more research is needed

before we’ll know why rates of mood disorders began rising so quickly in the
2010s.
One conclusion that future research is almost certain to reach is that the
effects of smartphones and social media are complicated, involving mixtures
of benefits and harms depending on which kinds of kids are doing which
kinds of online activities instead of doing which kinds of offline activities.
One factor that is already emerging as a central variable for study is the
quality of a teenager’s relationships and how technology is impacting it. In a
recent review of research on the effects of social media, social psychologists
Jenna Clark, Sara Algoe, and Melanie Green offer this principle: “Social
network sites benefit their users when they are used to make meaningful
social connections and harm their users through pitfalls such as isolation and
social comparison when they are not.”45
So we don’t want to create a moral panic and frighten parents into
banning all devices until their kids turn twenty-one. These are complicated
issues, and much more research is needed. In the meantime, as we’ll say in
chapter 12, there is enough evidence to support placing time limits on device
use (perhaps two hours a day for adolescents, less for younger kids) while
limiting or prohibiting the use of platforms that amplify social comparison
rather than social connection. There is also a strong case to be made for
rethinking device use in the context of one’s overall parenting philosophy,
especially given everything we know about children’s overarching need to
play. We take up those topics in the next two chapters.

In Sum
The national rise in adolescent anxiety and depression that began
around 2011 is our second explanatory thread.
The generation born between 1995 and 2012, called iGen (or
sometimes Gen Z), is very different from the Millennials, the
generation that preceded it. According to Jean Twenge, an expert in the
study of generational differences, one difference is that iGen is growing
up more slowly. On average, eighteen-year-olds today have spent less
time unsupervised and have hit fewer developmental milestones on the

path to autonomy (such as getting a job or a driver’s license), compared
with eighteen-year-olds in previous generations.
A second difference is that iGen has far higher rates of anxiety and
depression. The increases for girls and young women are generally
much larger than for boys and young men. The increases do not just
reflect changing definitions or standards; they show up in rising
hospital admission rates of self-harm and in rising suicide rates. The
suicide rate of adolescent boys is still higher than that of girls, but the
suicide rate of adolescent girls has doubled since 2007.
According to Twenge, the primary cause of the increase in mental
illness is frequent use of smartphones and other electronic devices. Less
than two hours a day seems to have no deleterious effects, but
adolescents who spend several hours a day interacting with screens,
particularly if they start in their early teen years or younger, have worse
mental health outcomes than do adolescents who use these devices less
and who spend more time in face-to-face social interaction.
Girls may be suffering more than boys because they are more adversely
affected by social comparisons (especially based on digitally enhanced
beauty), by signals that they are being left out, and by relational
aggression, all of which became easier to enact and harder to escape
when adolescents acquired smartphones and social media.
iGen’s arrival at college coincides exactly with the arrival and
intensification of the culture of safetyism from 2013 to 2017. Members
of iGen may be especially attracted to the overprotection offered by the
culture of safetyism on many campuses because of students’ higher
levels of anxiety and depression. Both depression and anxiety cause
changes in cognition, including a tendency to see the world as more
dangerous and hostile than it really is.

CHAPTER 8

Paranoid Parenting
So many teens have lost the ability to tolerate distress and uncertainty,
and a big reason for that is the way we parent them.
KEVIN ASHWORTH, clinical director, NW Anxiety Institute in Portland, Oregon1

A

few days after Greg and his wife came home from the hospital with
their first child, they received an unusual gift in the mail: a shiny red
fire extinguisher. Not a toy fire truck. An actual fire extinguisher.
What made the gift especially meaningful was that the sender was Lenore
Skenazy, an author, journalist, and New York City mother of two. You may
know her as “America’s Worst Mom.”
Skenazy’s journey to infamy began in 2008, when she permitted her nineyear-old son, Izzy, to ride the New York City subway by himself. Izzy had
been begging her for weeks to take him someplace he’d never been before and
let him find his own way home. So, one sunny Sunday, Skenazy decided the
time was right. She took him along on a trip to Bloomingdale’s. Confident
that Izzy would find his way home and could ask a stranger for help if he
needed it, she armed him with a subway map, a MetroCard, a twenty-dollar
bill, and several quarters in case he needed to make a call, and then sent him
on his way. Forty-five minutes later (right on time), Izzy arrived home (where
his father was waiting for him) and was ecstatic about his success—and eager
to do it again.
Skenazy published a column about this little experiment in childhood
independence in The New York Sun,2 describing both Izzy’s joy and the
horrified reactions she received from other parents who heard what she had

allowed Izzy to do. Two days later, she was on the Today show, and then
MSNBC, Fox News, and NPR. Online message boards were flooded with
posts, mostly condemning her decision, though some applauded it. Soon,
Skenazy was decried as “America’s Worst Mom.”3
Most mothers would probably be mortified by that nickname, but
Skenazy embraced the title. She had given her son the kind of independence
that she (and most of today’s parents) had enjoyed back in the 1970s, when
the crime rate was much higher. So why had her choice generated so much
outrage and condemnation? Skenazy realized that something was seriously
wrong with modern parenting. In response, she created a blog to explain her
philosophy and to call attention to the paranoia and overprotection that have
become normal features of American parenting. She called it Free-Range Kids.
Since then, Free-Range Kids has grown into a full-fledged movement,
including a book of the same name, the reality TV show World’s Worst Mom,
and a nonprofit called Let Grow (see LetGrow.org).
The fire extinguisher was such an apt gift coming from Skenazy (who
included a note that read, “See, I care about safety!”), because the gift
represents her message in a nutshell: We should all take reasonable
precautions to protect our children’s physical safety—for example, by owning
a fire extinguisher—but we should not submit to the pull of safetyism
(overestimating danger, fetishizing safety, and not accepting any risk), which
deprives kids of some of the most valuable experiences in childhood.
In chapter 1, we discussed Nassim Taleb’s concept of antifragility. We
explained how the well-intentioned project of keeping kids “safe” from
peanuts had backfired; it prevented many kids’ immune systems from
learning that peanut proteins are harmless, which ultimately increased the
number of kids who are allergic to peanuts and who could actually die from
exposure to them. We suggested that this same dynamic might be partially
responsible for the rise of safetyism on college campuses, beginning around
2013. In chapter 7, we discussed Jean Twenge’s finding that members of iGen
(born in 1995 and later) are having very different childhoods than kids in
previous generations had, and are also suffering from much higher levels of
anxiety and depression. In this chapter, we look more closely at how
American childhood has changed in recent decades. We suggest that modern
parenting practices may unwittingly teach children the Great Untruths, and
we examine how parents and elementary schools may unknowingly work

together to induct children into the culture of safetyism. The shift to this
more fearful and overprotective way of treating children, which began in the
1980s and reached high levels in the 1990s—especially among more educated
parents—is our third explanatory thread.
To learn more about parenting and childhood, we sought advice from
three experts. In addition to Lenore Skenazy, we spoke with Julie LythcottHaims, the author of the best-selling book for parents How to Raise an Adult,
and Erika Christakis, an expert in early-childhood development and author of
The Importance of Being Little. (It was Christakis’s professional concerns
about the effects of oversupervision that led her to write the email about
Halloween costumes at Yale, which we described in chapter 3.) These experts
all came to the conclusion that modern parenting is preventing kids from
growing strong and independent, but each arrived at this conclusion via a
different path: Skenazy through the experiences we described above,
Christakis through her work as a preschool teacher and her research on early
childhood education, and Lythcott-Haims through her experience as the dean
of freshmen at Stanford University for more than a decade. All three have also
raised children of their own.

A Parent’s Worst Fear
On May 25, 1979, a few blocks south of New York University, a six-year-old
boy named Etan Patz persuaded his parents to let him walk the two blocks
from their apartment to his school bus stop. He never came home, and his
body was never found.4 Anyone who lived in New York at the time probably
remembers seeing signs all over the city and the distraught parents on the
evening news, pleading for anyone with information to come forward.
But it was a second highly publicized murder, in 1981, that changed the
course of American childhood by initiating a sustained movement to protect
children from strangers. Adam Walsh was six years old. His mother took him
shopping at a Sears in Hollywood, Florida, and let him play at a kiosk
promoting a new Atari video game system. The kiosk had attracted a gaggle
of older boys, so Adam’s mom let him stay there to watch while she went off
to the lamp department for a few minutes. A scuffle broke out among the

boys over whose turn was next, and the Sears security guards kicked all the
boys out of the store. It seems that the other boys then left the scene, and
Adam was too shy to speak up and say that his mother was inside. Standing
alone outside the store, he was lured into a car by a drifter and serial
murderer, who promised him toys and candy. Two weeks later, Adam’s
severed head was found in a canal 130 miles away.
Adam’s father, John Walsh, has devoted his life to trying to save other
children from suffering a similar fate. He created the Adam Walsh Child
Resource Center, which advocated for legislative reform and succeeded in
prodding the U.S. government to create the National Center for Missing &
Exploited Children in 1984. He worked with producers to create the madefor-TV movie Adam, which was seen by 38 million viewers when it first aired.
In 1988, Walsh launched a true-crime TV show, America’s Most Wanted,
which presented cases of unsolved crimes, including child abductions, and
asked the public for help. Walsh was instrumental in a novel method of
disseminating photographs of missing children: printing them on milk
cartons, under the big all-caps word MISSING.5 The first such cartons
appeared in 1984, and one of the first photos was of Etan Patz. By the early
1990s, the program had spread, and photos of missing children were
reproduced on grocery bags, billboards, pizza boxes, even utility bills. Norms
changed, fears grew, and many parents came to believe that if they took their
eyes off their children for an instant in any public venue, their kid might be
snatched. It no longer felt safe to let kids roam around their neighborhoods
unsupervised.
The abduction and murder of a child by a stranger is among the most
horrific crimes one can imagine. It is also, thankfully, among the rarest.
According to the FBI, almost 90% of children who go missing have either
miscommunicated their plans, misunderstood directions, or run away from
home or foster care,6 and 99.8% of the time, missing children come home.7
The vast majority of those who are abducted are taken by a biological parent
who does not have custody; the number abducted by a stranger is a tiny
fraction of 1% of children reported missing—roughly one hundred children
per year in a nation with more than 70 million minors.8 And since the 1990s,
the rates of all crimes against children have gone down,9 while the chances of
a kidnapped child surviving the ordeal have gone up.10

Actual Versus Imagined Risk
The cities and towns in which the parents of iGen were raised were far more
dangerous than they are today. Baby Boomers and Gen-Xers grew up with
rising rates of crime and mayhem.11 Muggings were a normal part of urban
life, and city dwellers sometimes carried “muggers’ money” in a cheap wallet
so they would not have to hand over their real wallet.12 Heroin syringes and
later crack vials became common city sights. When you combine the giant
crime wave that began in the 1960s with the rapid spread of cable TV in the
1980s, including news channels that offered round-the-clock coverage of
missing-child cases,13 you can see why American parents grew fearful and
defensive by the 1990s.
The crime wave ended rather abruptly in the early 1990s, when rates of
nearly all crimes began to plummet all over the United States.14 In 2013, for
example, the murder rate dropped to the same level it had been at sixty years
earlier.15 Nevertheless, the fear of crime did not diminish along with the crime
rate, and the new habits of fearful parenting seem to have become new
national norms. American parenting is now wildly out of sync with the actual
risk that strangers pose to children.
To see how far into safetyism some parents have gone, consider the
Missouri family that staged a kidnapping of their own six-year-old son in
2015. They wanted to “teach him a lesson” about how dangerous it is to be
friendly to strangers. After getting off his school bus, the boy was lured into a
pickup truck by his aunt’s coworker. The man then told the little boy that he
would never “see his mommy again,” according to the sheriff’s statement. The
police also reported that the man covered the boy’s face with a jacket so he
couldn’t tell he was being taken into his own basement. The boy was tied up,
threatened with a gun, and told he would be sold into sex slavery.16
Of course, few parents would ever terrorize their children in this way, but
less extreme forms of safetyism are taught in subtler ways. Lythcott-Haims
and Skenazy both shared stories with us about parents who are afraid to let
their teenagers ride their bikes to neighbors’ houses. A psychologist who
writes for HealthyChildren.org reported that “the National Center for
Missing and Exploited Children feels that children of any age should not be

permitted to use public restrooms alone.”17 While referencing her own nineyear-old son, the psychologist offered these tips:
Never send a child into a public restroom alone.
Instruct your child to use a private bathroom stall rather than a urinal.
Avoid restrooms with more than one entrance.
Stand in the door and talk to your child throughout their time in the
bathroom.
We can understand a mother’s fear that her son might encounter a pervert
in a public restroom. But wouldn’t it be better to teach the boy to recognize
perverted or inappropriate bathroom behavior so he can get away from it on
those very rare occasions when he might encounter it, rather than teaching
him to fear for his life and maintain verbal contact with a parent every time
he needs to use a public restroom?

The Dangers of Safetyism
If you spend time on Facebook, you’ve probably seen posts with titles like: “8
Reasons Children of the 1970s Should All Be Dead.”18 (Reason #1: Lawn darts.
Reason #4: Tanning oil instead of sunscreen.) Such posts are shared widely by
children of the 1970s (like us), because they allow our generation to laugh at
the safety concerns of today’s parents and to point out that when we grew up,
nobody wore seat belts or bike helmets, most of the adults smoked (even
around children), paint and gasoline were leaded, and children were
encouraged to go—on their own—to parks and playgrounds, where anyone
could kidnap them.
While the tone is frequently mocking and dismissive, these posts also
highlight some important successes in the pursuit of child safety. Increased
use of seat belts has saved many lives,19 bicycle helmets lower the risk of
traumatic brain injuries,20 not smoking around children confers many health
benefits on the kids,21 and removing lead from paint and gasoline has
prevented untold numbers of medical problems and deaths.22 Putting it all

together, from 1960 to 1990, there was a 48% reduction in deaths from
unintended injuries and accidents among kids between five and fourteen
years of age, and a 57% drop in deaths of younger kids (ages one to four).23
The success of childhood safety campaigns helps explain why modern parents
often take a concern about safety to the extreme of safetyism. After all, if
focusing on big threats produces such dividends, why not go further and
make childhood as close to perfectly safe as possible?
A problem with this kind of thinking is that when we attempt to produce
perfectly safe systems, we almost inevitably create new and unforeseen
problems. For example, efforts to prevent financial instability by bailing out
companies can lead to larger and more destructive crashes later on;24 efforts
to protect forests by putting out small fires can allow dead wood to build up,
eventually leading to catastrophic fires far worse than the sum of the smaller
fires that were prevented.25 Safety rules and programs—like most efforts to
change complex systems—often have unintended consequences. Sometimes
these consequences are so bad that the intended beneficiaries are worse off
than if nothing had been done at all.
We believe that efforts to protect children from environmental hazards
and vehicular accidents have been very good for children. Exposure to lead
and cigarette smoke confer no benefits; being in a car crash without a seat belt
does not make kids more resilient in future car crashes. But efforts to protect
kids from risk by preventing them from gaining experience—such as walking
to school, climbing a tree, or using sharp scissors—are different. Such
protections come with costs, as kids miss out on opportunities to learn skills,
independence, and risk assessment. (Keeping them indoors also raises their
risk of obesity.) Skenazy puts the case succinctly: “The problem with this
‘everything is dangerous’ outlook is that over-protectiveness is a danger in
and of itself.”26
Lythcott-Haims concurs:
I’ve met parents who won’t let their seventeen-year-old take the subway.
And I said to them, “What’s your long-term strategy for her?” . . . I see it all
around me. I see kids afraid to be alone on the sidewalk. They don’t like
walking places alone. They don’t like biking places alone. And it’s probably
because they’ve been basically made to feel that they can be abducted at
any moment.27

As Taleb showed us in Antifragile, by placing a protective shield over our
children, we inadvertently stunt their growth and deprive them of the
experiences they need to become successful and functional adults. Journalist
Hara Estroff Marano has been sounding the alarm about this trend for more
than fifteen years. “Parents are going to ludicrous lengths to take the bumps
out of life for their children,” she says. “However, parental hyperconcern has
the net effect of making kids more fragile.”28 Most parents know this on some
level but still find themselves hovering and overprotecting. Even LythcottHaims has caught herself:
So here I was, highly critical of parents who couldn’t let go of their college
students. And then one day, when my kid was ten, I leaned over at dinner
and began cutting his meat. And I realized in that moment: Holy cow! I’m
cutting his meat and he’s ten! I was babysitting other kids when I was ten,
but my own kid needs to have his meat cut. What the hell is up with that?29

The blame for creating the culture of safetyism does not fall entirely on
individual parents. At a fundamental level, overparenting and safetyism are
“problems of progress,” which we mentioned in the introductory chapter.
Thankfully, gone are the days when families routinely had five or more
children and expected one or more of them to die. When countries attain
material prosperity and women gain educational equality, full political rights,
and access to good healthcare and contraception, birth rates plunge and most
couples have just one or two children. They invest more time in these fewer,
healthier children.30 In fact, even though mothers today have fewer children
and spend far more time working outside the home than they did in 1965,
they are spending more total time taking care of their children.31 Fathers’ time
with kids has increased even more.
Parents spending time with their kids is generally a good thing, but too
much close supervision and protection can morph into safetyism. Safetyism
takes children who are antifragile by nature and turns them into young adults
who are more fragile and and anxious, and therefore more receptive to the
Untruth of Fragility: What doesn’t kill you makes you weaker.

Pressured Into Overprotection
When parents get together and talk about parenting, it is common to hear
condemnations of helicopter parenting. Many parents want to do less
hovering and give their kids more freedom, but it’s not so easy; there are
pressures from other parents, from schools, and even from laws that push
parents to be more protective than they would like to be. Skenazy says that
societal pressures often prompt parents to engage in “worst-first thinking.”32
Unless parents prepare for the worst possible outcomes, they are looked down
on by other parents and by teachers for being bad parents (or even “America’s
Worst Mom”). Good parents are expected to believe that their children are in
danger every moment they are unsupervised.
It gets worse. Parents who reject overparenting and give their kids more
freedom can actually be arrested. In 2015, two Florida parents were charged
with felony child neglect when they were delayed getting home.33 Unable to
get into his house, their eleven-year-old son played with a basketball in their
yard for ninety minutes. A neighbor called the police. After being handcuffed,
strip-searched, fingerprinted, and held overnight in jail, the parents were
arrested for negligence, and the boy and his four-year-old brother (who had
not been left alone) were put in foster care for a month. Even after being
returned to their parents, the children were required to attend “play” therapy.
The parents, who had no history of neglecting their children, were mandated
to get therapy and take parenting classes.
In Bristol, Connecticut, in 2014, a woman left her daughter alone in her
car while she went into a CVS pharmacy. This might sound bad to you,
especially when you learn that it was summertime and the car windows were
all closed. An alert passerby called the police, who were able to open the car
door. The police reported that the child was “responsive” and not in distress.
But here’s the thing: the girl was eleven years old. She had told her mother
that she preferred to wait in the car rather than come into the store.34
Before the rise of paranoid parenting, eleven-year-olds could earn money
and learn responsibility by babysitting for neighbors, as Jon and his sisters did
in the 1970s. Now, according to some police departments and local
busybodies, eleven-year-olds need babysitters themselves. The mother was
issued a misdemeanor summons and forced to appear in court.

When the police endorse safetyism, it forces parents to overprotect. The
police chief of New Albany, Ohio, advises that children should not be allowed
outside without supervision until the age of 16.35 When you combine peer
pressure, shaming, and the threat of arrest, it’s no wonder that so many
American parents simply don’t let their kids out of their sight anymore, even
though many of those same parents report that their fondest memories of
childhood were unsupervised outdoor adventures with friends.
SAFE BOOKS FOR SAFE KIDS
Lenore Skenazy points out that most great children’s books involve kids
going off on adventures without adult supervision. For parents who don’t
want to put dangerous ideas in their kids’ heads, she and her readers offer
a set of classic titles updated for the age of safetyism:
Oh, the Places You Won’t Go!
The Playdates of Huckleberry Finn
Harold and the Purple Sofa
Encyclopedia Brown Solves the Worksheet
Harry Potter and the Sit-Still Challenge
Dora in the Ford Explorer (But Not Without a Parent!)

Class Matters
Different explanatory threads matter more for different people, and perhaps
the biggest differentiator of life experiences in the United States today is social
class. To understand how social class influences parenting practices, we’ll
draw on two books that combine in-depth profiles of families with
sociological theory and data: Unequal Childhoods: Class, Race, and Family
Life, by University of Pennsylvania sociologist Annette Lareau, and Our Kids:
The American Dream in Crisis, by Harvard political scientist Robert Putnam.
Both scholars find that, with respect to parenting practices, social class
matters far more than race, so we’ll set race aside and focus on the ways that
class differences in parenting may be relevant for understanding what is now
happening on college campuses. For simplicity, we’ll use Lareau’s terms

“middle class” and “working class,” but “middle class” means middle class
and above, including the upper class. The term “working class” is used for
everyone below middle class, including poor families.
The big divide in parenting practices is best seen in the contrast between
two kinds of families: those in which children are raised by two parents who
each have four-year-college degrees and are married to each other throughout
their children’s childhood, and those in which children are raised by a single
or divorced parent (or other relative) who does not have a four-year-college
degree. The first kind of family is very common in the upper third of the
socioeconomic spectrum, in which marriage rates are high and divorce rates
are low. These families generally employ a parenting style that Lareau calls
“concerted cultivation.” Parents using this style see their task as cultivating
their children’s talents while stimulating the development of their cognitive
and social skills. They fill their children’s calendars with adult-guided
activities, lessons, and experiences, and they closely monitor what happens in
school. They talk with their children a great deal, using reasoning and
persuasion, and they hardly ever use physical force or physical punishment.
The second kind of family is very common in the bottom third of the
socioeconomic spectrum, where most children are born to unmarried
mothers. These families generally employ a parenting style that Lareau calls
“natural growth parenting.” Working-class parents tend to believe that
children will reach maturity without needing much guidance or interference
from adults. Children therefore experience “long stretches of leisure time,
child-initiated play, clear boundaries between adults and children, and daily
interactions with kin.”36 Parents spend less time talking with their children,
and reason with them far less, compared with middle-class parents; they also
give more orders and directives, and they sometimes use spanking or physical
discipline.
From these descriptions, it would seem that working-class kids have one
advantage: they get more unstructured and unsupervised play time, which, as
we’ll say in the next chapter, is very good for developing social skills and a
sense of autonomy. In fact, Putnam points to this class difference as
something relatively new and very important. He notes that the parents of
Baby Boomers were strongly influenced by the writings of childrearing expert
Dr. Benjamin Spock, who taught that “children should be permitted to
develop at their own pace, not pushed to meet the schedules and rules of

adult life.”37 Spock encouraged parents to relax and let children be children,
and indeed, Baby Boomers and GenX children were generally given the
freedom to roam around their neighborhoods and play without adult
supervision. But Putnam notes that, beginning in the 1980s and accelerating
in the 1990s, “the dominant ideas and social norms about good parenting
[had] shifted from Spock’s ‘permissive parenting’ to a new model of ‘intensive
parenting,’”38 which essentially describes Lareau’s concerted cultivation. This
change happened primarily among middle-class parents, who were immersed
in news reports about the importance of early stimulation (for example, the
erroneous idea that babies who listen to Mozart will become smarter)39 and
who wanted to give their children every possible advantage in the increasingly
competitive race to get into a good college. This shift did not happen among
working-class parents. The change in middle-class parenting norms is crucial
for our story. Putnam identifies the shift as kicking in just before iGen was
born. To the extent that iGen college students are behaving differently from
previous generations of college students, a contributing factor may be that,
compared with previous generations, middle-class iGen (and late Millennial)
students were overscheduled and overparented as children.
It would be a mistake, however, to think that working-class kids had an
overall advantage. Putnam and Lareau both note a variety of factors that make
it harder for working-class kids to succeed in general, and in college in
particular, even if they are admitted to selective universities. One is that all
those organized activities help to familiarize middle-class children with the
ways of adults in professional settings and adult-run institutions. Parental
modeling gives them a sense that institutions can be made to serve their needs
if they can make the right argument to the right person at the right time.
Working-class kids, in contrast, have generally had less exposure to adult
institutions and have not seen their parents engage with these institutions
with the same sense of strength, rights, or entitlement to good treatment.
Working-class kids are therefore more likely to feel like “fish out of water” in
college. (This may have contributed to the feelings of not belonging that
Olivia wrote about, from the Claremont McKenna College story we presented
in chapter 3.)
Compared with middle-class kids, the second major disadvantage
plaguing working-class kids is that they are more likely to have been affected
by chronic and severe adversity. In the 1990s, a group of researchers

developed a survey to standardize the assessment of “Adverse Childhood
Experiences” (ACE).40 The survey asked people to report which items, from a
list of ten, they had been exposed to in childhood; things like “Parents
separated/divorced,” “You lacked food or clothes or your parents were too
drunk or high to care for you,” “Felt no one in family loved or supported
you,” “Adult sexually abused you.” As the number of yes responses increases
beyond two, measures of health and success in adulthood tend to decline, and
this introduces an important complication to our story about antifragility:
Severe adversity that hits kids early, especially in the absence of secure and
loving attachment relationships with adults, does not make them stronger; it
makes them weaker. Chronic, severe adversity creates “toxic stress.” It resets
children’s stress responses to kick in more readily and for longer periods in
the future. Putnam summarizes the findings like this:
Moderate stress buffered by supportive adults is not necessarily harmful,
and may even be helpful, in that it can promote the development of coping
skills. On the other hand, severe and chronic stress, especially if unbuffered
by supportive adults, can disrupt the basic executive functions that govern
how various parts of the brain work together to address challenges and
solve problems. Consequently, children who experience toxic stress have
trouble concentrating, controlling impulsive behavior, and following
directions.41

Kids raised in families below the middle class score much higher, on
average, on the ACE survey. Their family situations tend to be more unstable;
their economic lives are often precarious, and they are much more likely to
witness violence or be victims of violence. This means that even if they make
it to college, they may still be carrying scars and disadvantages with them, and
in order to thrive in college, they may need different kinds of support than are
appropriate for their wealthier peers, whose brains were shaped by concerted
cultivation.
The lesson we draw from this brief review of research on social class and
parenting is that although kids are naturally antifragile, there are two very
different ways to damage their development. One is to neglect and
underprotect them, exposing them early to severe and chronic adversity. This
has happened to some of today’s college students, particularly those from

working-class or poor families. The other is to overmonitor and overprotect
them, denying them the thousands of small challenges, risks, and adversities
that they need to face on their own in order to become strong and resilient
adults.
America’s selective universities are dominated by children from the upper
class and upper-middle class. A recent analysis found that at thirty-eight top
schools, including most of the Ivy League, there are more undergraduate
students from families in the top 1% of the income distribution than from the
bottom 60%.42 This means that overparenting is probably a much greater
cause of fragility on such campuses than is underparenting.

Safe and Unwise
Paranoid parenting and the cult of safetyism teach kids some of the specific
cognitive distortions that we discussed in chapter 1. We asked Skenazy which
of the distortions she encounters most often in her work with parents.
“Almost all of them,” she said.43
Skenazy sees discounting positives when parents overmonitor. “Any upside
to free, unsupervised time (joy, independence, problem-solving, resilience) is
seen as trivial, compared to the infinite harm the child could suffer without
you there. There is nothing positive but safety.” Parents also use negative
filtering frequently, Skenazy says. “Parents are saying, ‘Look at all the
foods/activities/words/people that could harm our kids!’ rather than ‘I’m so
glad we’ve finally overcome diphtheria, polio, and famine!’” She also points
out the ways that parents use dichotomous thinking: “If something isn’t 100%
safe, it’s dangerous.”
Paranoid parenting is a powerful way to teach kids all three of the Great
Untruths. We convince children that the world is full of danger; evil lurks in
the shadows, on the streets, and in public parks and restrooms. Kids raised in
this way are emotionally prepared to embrace the Untruth of Us Versus
Them: Life is a battle between good people and evil people—a worldview that
makes them fear and suspect strangers. We teach children to monitor
themselves for the degree to which they “feel unsafe” and then talk about how
unsafe they feel. They may come to believe that feeling “unsafe” (the feeling of

being uncomfortable or anxious) is a reliable sign that they are unsafe (the
Untruth of Emotional Reasoning: Always trust your feelings). Finally, feeling
these emotions is unpleasant; therefore, children may conclude, the feelings
are dangerous in and of themselves—stress will harm them if it doesn’t kill
them (the Untruth of Fragility: What doesn’t kill you makes you weaker).
If children develop the habit of thinking in these ways when they are
young, they are likely to develop corresponding schemas that guide the way
they interpret new situations in high school and college. They may see more
danger in their environment and more hostile intent in the actions of others.
They may be more likely than kids in previous generations to believe that
they should flee or avoid anything that could be construed as even a minor
threat. They may be more likely to interpret words, books, and ideas in terms
of safety versus danger, or good versus evil, rather than using dimensions that
would promote learning, such as true versus false, or fascinating versus
uninteresting. While it is easy to see how this way of thinking, when brought
to a college campus, could lead to requests for safe spaces, trigger warnings,
microaggression training, and bias response teams, it is difficult to see how
this way of thinking could produce well-educated, bold, and open-minded
college graduates.

In Sum
Paranoid parenting is our third explanatory thread.
When we overprotect children, we harm them. Children are naturally
antifragile, so overprotection makes them weaker and less resilient later
on.
Children today have far more restricted childhoods, on average, than
those enjoyed by their parents, who grew up in far more dangerous
times and yet had many more opportunities to develop their intrinsic
antifragility. Compared with previous generations, younger Millennials
and especially members of iGen (born in and after 1995) have been
deprived of unsupervised time for play and exploration. They have
missed out on many of the challenges, negative experiences, and minor

risks that help children develop into strong, competent, and
independent adults (as we’ll show in the next chapter).
Children in the United States and other prosperous countries are safer
today than at any other point in history. Yet for a variety of historical
reasons, fear of abduction is still very high among American parents,
many of whom have come to believe that children should never be
without adult supervision. When children are repeatedly led to believe
that the world is dangerous and that they cannot face it alone, we
should not be surprised if many of them believe it.
Helicopter parenting combined with laws and social norms that make
it hard to give kids unsupervised time may be having a negative impact
on the mental health and resilience of young people today.
There are large social class differences in parenting styles. Families in
the middle class (and above) tend to use a style that sociologist Annette
Lareau calls “concerted cultivation,” in contrast to the “natural growth
parenting” used by families in the working class (and below). Some
college students from wealthier families may have been rendered more
fragile from overparenting and oversupervision. College students from
poorer backgrounds are exposed to a very different set of risks,
including potential exposure to chronic, severe adversity, which is
especially detrimental to resilience when children lack caring
relationships with adults who can buffer stress and help them turn
adversity into growth.
Paranoid parenting prepares today’s children to embrace the three
Great Untruths, which means that when they go to college, they are
psychologically primed to join a culture of safetyism.

CHAPTER 9

The Decline of Play
All work and no play makes Jack a dull boy.
PROVERB, seventeenth century

W

hy don’t kids like to be “it”? Why, at the start of a game of tag, do
they each call out, “Not it!” and then point to the loser, the last one
to reject the role?
A provocative answer can be found by looking at the play of other
mammals, most of which have some version of chasing games. In species that
are predators, such as wolves, their pups seem to prefer to be the chasers. In
species that are prey, such as rats, the pups prefer to be chased.1 Our primate
ancestors were both prey and predator, but they were prey for much longer.
That may be why human children particularly enjoy practicing their fleeing
and hiding skills.2
When seen from a distance, child’s play is a strange thing. Peter
LaFreniere, a developmental psychologist at the University of Maine, notes
that children’s play “combines the expenditure of great energy with
apparently pointless risk.”3 But if nearly all mammals do it, and if some of
them get injured or eaten while doing it, it must offer some pretty powerful
benefits to compensate for the risks.
It does. Play is essential for wiring a mammal’s brain to create a
functioning adult. Mammals that are deprived of play won’t develop to their
full capacity. In one experiment demonstrating this effect, rat pups were
raised in one of three conditions: (1) totally alone in a cage; (2) alone except
for one hour a day with a normal, playful young rat, during which time

normal rough-and-tumble play occurred; and (3) same as condition 2, except
that the visiting young rat was treated with a drug that knocked out roughand-tumble play while leaving other social behaviors, such as sniffing and
nuzzling. When the young rats were later put into new situations, those that
had engaged in rough-and-tumble play showed fewer signs of fearfulness and
engaged in more exploration of the new environment.4
A key concept from developmental biology is “experience-expectant
development.”5 Human beings have only about 22,000 genes, but our brains
have approximately 100 billion neurons, with hundreds of trillions of synaptic
connections. Our genes could never offer a codebook or blueprint for
building anything so complex. Even if a blueprint could be passed down in
our genes, it would not be flexible enough to build children who were well
adapted to the vast range of environments and problems that our wandering
species has gotten itself into. Nature found a better way to wire our large
brains, and it goes like this: Genes are essential for getting the various cell
lines started in the embryo, and genes guide brain development toward a
“first draft” in utero. But experience matters, too, even while the baby is in the
uterus; and after birth, it matters enormously. Experience is so essential for
wiring a large brain that the “first draft” of the brain includes a strong
motivation to practice behaviors that will give the brain the right kind of
feedback to optimize itself for success in the environment that happens to
surround it. That’s why young mammals are so keen to play, despite the risks.
It’s easy to see how this works with language in humans: The genes get the
ball rolling on the development of brain structures for language, but the child
must actually encounter and practice a language to finish the process. The
linguistic brain is “expecting” certain kinds of input, and children are
therefore motivated to engage in back-and-forth reciprocal exchanges with
others in order to get that input. It’s fun for them to exchange sounds, and
later, real words, with other people. A child who was deprived of these
linguistic interactions until puberty would be unable to fully acquire a
language or learn to speak normally, having missed the “critical period” for
language learning that is part of the normal developmental process.6
It’s the same logic for physical skills (such as fleeing from predators) and
social skills (such as negotiating conflicts and cooperation). The genes get the
ball rolling on the first draft of the brain, but the brain is “expecting” the child
to engage in thousands of hours of play—including thousands of falls,

scrapes, conflicts, insults, alliances, betrayals, status competitions, and acts of
exclusion—in order to develop. Children who are deprived of play are less
likely to develop into physically and socially competent teens and adults.7
Research on play has increased rapidly since 1980. Evidence for the
benefits of play is now strong, and there’s a growing body of scholarship—
suggestive though not conclusive—linking play deprivation to later anxiety
and depression.8 As stated in one review of this literature:
Research has shown that anxious children may elicit overprotective
behavior from others, such as parents and caretakers, and that this
reinforces the child’s perception of threat and decreases their perception of
controlling the danger. Overprotection might thus result in exaggerated
levels of anxiety. Overprotection through governmental control of
playgrounds and exaggerated fear of playground accidents might thus
result in an increase of anxiety in society. We might need to provide more
stimulating environments for children, rather than hamper their development
[emphasis added].9

Given this research, and given the rising levels of adolescent anxiety,
depression, and suicide, which we described in chapter 7, our educational
system and parenting practices should offer kids more time for free play. But
in fact, the opposite has happened.
In this chapter, we investigate why the most beneficial forms of play have
declined sharply since the 1970s, and we ask what effects this change in
childhood might have on teens and college students. The decline of
unsupervised free play—including ample opportunities to take small risks—is
our fourth explanatory thread.

The Decline of Free Play
Peter Gray, a leading researcher of play, defines “free play” as “activity that is
freely chosen and directed by the participants and undertaken for its own
sake, not consciously pursued to achieve ends that are distinct from the
activity itself.”10 Piano lessons and soccer practice are not free play, but
goofing around on a piano or organizing a pickup soccer game are. Gray and

other researchers note that all play is not equal. Vigorous physical free play—
outdoors, and with other kids—is a crucial kind of play, one that our evolved
minds are “expecting.” It also happens to be the kind of play that kids
generally say they like the most.11 (There is also a good case to be made for the
importance of imaginative or pretend play,12 which is found not only in less
rambunctious kinds of indoor free play but often in rough-and-tumble
outdoor free play as well.)
Gray notes the tendency of kids to introduce danger and risk into outdoor
free play, such as when they climb walls and trees, or skateboard down
staircases and railings:
They seem to be dosing themselves with moderate degrees of fear, as if
deliberately learning how to deal with both the physical and emotional
challenges of the moderately dangerous conditions they generate. . . . All
such activities are fun to the degree that they are moderately frightening. If
too little fear is induced, the activity is boring; if too much is induced, it
becomes no longer play but terror. Nobody but the child himself or herself
knows the right dose.13

Unfortunately, outdoor physical play is the kind that has declined the
most in the lives of American children. The study that offers the clearest
picture of the relevant trends was carried out in 1981 by sociologists at the
University of Michigan, who asked parents of children under thirteen to keep
detailed records of how their kids spent their time on several randomly
chosen days. They repeated the study in 1997, and found that time spent in
any kind of play went down 16% overall, and much of the play had shifted to
indoor activities, often involving a computer and no other children.14 This
kind of play does not build physical strength and is not as effective at building
psychological resilience or social competence, so the drop in real, healthy,
sociable free play was much greater than 16%. That study compared
Generation X (who were kids in 1981) to Millennials (who were kids in 1997).
Twenge’s analysis of iGen, the current generation of kids, shows that the drop
in free play has accelerated. Compared with Millennials, iGen spends less
time going out with friends, more time interacting with parents, and much
more time interacting with screens (which can be a form of social interaction
but can have some negative effects, as we discussed in chapter 7).15

Compared with previous generations, members of iGen have therefore
had much less of the kind of unsupervised free play that Gray says is most
valuable. They have been systematically deprived of opportunities to “dose
themselves” with risk. Instead of enjoying a healthy amount of risk, this
generation is more likely than earlier ones to avoid it. Twenge shows how
responses have changed to the survey question “I get a real kick out of doing
things that are a little dangerous.” From 1994 through 2010, the percentage of
adolescents who agreed with that question held steady, in the low 50s. But as
iGen enters the dataset, agreement drops, dipping to 43% by 2015. If
members of iGen have been risk-deprived and are therefore more risk averse,
then it is likely that they have a lower bar for what they see as daunting or
threatening. They will see more ordinary life tasks as beyond their ability to
handle on their own without help from an adult. It should not surprise us that
anxiety and depression rates began rising rapidly on campus as soon as iGen
arrived.
In contrast to the decreased time spent in play between 1981 and 1997,
that same time-use study found that time spent in school went up 18%, and
time spent doing homework went up 145%.16 Research by Duke University
psychologist Harris Cooper indicates that while there are benefits to
homework in middle school and high school, provided it’s relevant and in the
right amount, achievement benefits in elementary school are smaller, and
homework that isn’t realistic in length and difficulty can even decrease
achievement.17 Yet elementary school students have seen an increase in
homework over the past twenty years.18 Some schools even assign homework
in kindergarten. (Lenore Skenazy told us that when she asked her son’s
teacher why homework was being assigned in kindergarten, the teacher
responded, “So they will be ready for homework in first grade.”19)
Why is this happening? Why have we deprived kids of the healthiest
forms of play and given them more homework and more supervision instead?
One of the major reasons for the decline of all forms of unsupervised outdoor
activity is, of course, the unrealistic media-amplified fear of abduction, which
we described in the previous chapter. In one large survey, published in 2004,
85% of mothers said that their children played outdoors less frequently than
they themselves had played when they were the same age. When asked to
select reasons to explain why their children didn’t spend more time on

outdoor play, 82% of the mothers chose “safety concerns,” including the fear
of crime.20
But there’s a second reason, a second fear that haunts American parents
and children—particularly those in the middle class and above—far more
than it did in the late twentieth century: the college admissions process.

Childhood as Test Prep
When the parents of Millennials and iGen were children, early education was
very different than it is today. Take a look at a checklist from 197921 that
helped parents decide whether their six-year-old was ready to start first grade.
It has just twelve items, and almost all of them are about physical and
emotional maturation and independence—including one item that could get
parents arrested today (#8).
IS YOUR CHILD READY FOR FIRST GRADE: 1979 EDITION
1. Will your child be six years, six months or older when he begins first
grade and starts receiving reading instruction?
2. Does your child have two to five permanent or second teeth?
3. Can your child tell, in such a way that his speech is understood by a
school crossing guard or policeman, where he lives?
4. Can he draw and color and stay within the lines of the design being
colored?
5. Can he stand on one foot with eyes closed for five to ten seconds?
6. Can he ride a small two-wheeled bicycle without helper wheels?
7. Can he tell left hand from right?
8. Can he travel alone in the neighborhood (four to eight blocks) to
store, school, playground, or to a friend’s home?
9. Can he be away from you all day without being upset?
10. Can he repeat an eight- to ten-word sentence, if you say it once, as
“The boy ran all the way home from the store”?
11. Can he count eight to ten pennies correctly?
12. Does your child try to write or copy letters or numbers?22

Compare that to one from today. A checklist from a school in Austin,
Texas, has thirty items on it, almost all of which are academic, including:
Identify and write numbers to 100
Count by 10’s to 100, by 2’s to 20, by 5’s to 100
Interpret and fill in data on a graph
Read all kindergarten-level sight words
Be able to read books with five to ten words per page
Form complete sentences on paper using phonetic spelling (i.e., journal
and story writing)23
Kindergarten in 1979 was devoted mostly to social interaction and selfdirected play, with some instruction in art, music, numbers, and the alphabet
thrown in. Erika Christakis notes that kindergarten classrooms would have
been organized to build social relationships and facilitate hands-on
exploration (such as with blocks or Lincoln Logs) and imaginative and
symbolic play (such as a store or housekeeping corner with props and
costumes). Back then, kindergarten, which for most children was a half day,
probably looked more like what passes for a progressive preschool today,
consisting of “open-ended free play, snack, singing songs with rhyming words
for a little oral language exposure, a story, maybe an art project and some
sorting games or block building for math awareness.”24 Today, kindergarten is
much more structured and sedentary, with children spending more time
sitting at their desks and receiving direct instruction in academic subjects—
known as the “drill and skill” method of instruction, but that teachers not-soaffectionately call “drill and kill.”25 Such methods are sometimes effective
ways to communicate academic information to older children, but they are
not appropriate for use with young children. There is growing evidence that
with young children, these methods can backfire and produce negative effects
on creativity as well as on social and emotional development.26
Researchers at the University of Virginia compared kindergarten classes
in 1998 (composed of some of the last members of the Millennial generation)
to kindergarten in 2010 and found that by 2010, the use of standardized tests
in kindergarten was much more common. Teaching methods and classroom
organization had changed, and far more time was spent on advanced reading

and math content. The study also found that teachers’ academic expectations
of kindergarteners in 2010 were far higher than they had been in 1998,27 a
trend that seems to continue. For example, today’s Common Core
kindergarten math standards include “construct viable arguments and
critique the reasoning of others,”28 and reading skills include “read emergentreader texts with purpose and understanding.”29
In response to things like the No Child Left Behind Act of 2001, state
preschool standards, a general emphasis on testing, and then the introduction
of Common Core standards, the preschool and kindergarten landscape has
changed enormously.30 Christakis laments that social time and play have been
sacrificed in preschool to keep up with academic expectations for
kindergarten readiness. As she reports, kindergarten teachers still claim that
the most important skills for kindergarten are not academic but social and
emotional (like listening and being able to take turns).31
Beginning in preschool and continuing throughout primary school,
children’s days are now more rigidly structured. Opportunities for selfdirection, social exploration, and scientific discovery are increasingly lost to
direct instruction in the core curriculum, which is often driven by the schools’
focus on preparing students to meet state testing requirements. Meanwhile,
especially for wealthier kids, instead of neighborhood children finding one
another after school and engaging in free play, children have after-school
activities like music lessons, team sports, tutoring, and other structured and
supervised activities.32 For younger children, parents schedule playdates,33
which are likely to occur under the watchful eye of a parent.
For children of many educated parents with means, instead of afternoons
and weekends spent hanging out with friends or resting, that nonschool time
is increasingly used to cultivate skills that will allow those children to stand
out later on in the college admissions game. It’s no wonder that parents work
so hard to plan their children’s time. What eight-year-old has the foresight to
play the tuba or girls’ golf—activities that might make them more attractive to
colleges?34 What thirteen-year-old has the organizational skills and forward
thinking (not to mention transportation plan) to follow the advice of The
Princeton Review, which urges students to increase their appeal to colleges by
picking one community-service activity early on and sticking with it year
after year, volunteering two hours a week through senior year?35

The Resume Arms Race
It has become much more difficult to gain admission to the top U.S.
universities. For example, in the 1980s and ’90s, Yale’s acceptance rate
hovered around 20%. By 2003, the admission rate was down to 11% and in
2017 it was 7%.36 So it makes sense that parents have increasingly teamed up
with their children to help them pack their resumes with extracurricular
activities. It’s what former Yale English professor William Deresiewicz calls
“the resume arms race,” and any family that doesn’t come together to play the
game puts their child at a disadvantage. “The only point of having more,”
Deresiewicz explains in his book Excellent Sheep, “is having more than
everybody else. Nobody needed 20,000 atomic warheads until the other side
had 19,000. Nobody needs eleven extracurriculars, either—what purpose does
having them actually serve?—unless the other guy has ten.”37
Given the fierce competition, parents in some social circles convey a sense
of panic about children’s grades, even in middle school—as if not getting an A
will determine the course of a child’s life. This would normally be a clear
example of catastrophizing, but in some highly competitive school districts, it
may not be entirely unrealistic. Julie Lythcott-Haims puts it like this: “Let’s
say this is math. If they don’t get an A in sixth-grade math, it means they
might not be on track to be in the highest level of math in high school, which
means they won’t get into Stanford.”38 So it isn’t surprising that so many
parents are hovering and oversupervising, not just to ensure safety but to
ensure that children do homework and prepare for tests.39 Some of these
parents may think that making sure their children do whatever it takes to
succeed in advanced courses helps their children develop “grit.” But “grit is
often misunderstood as perseverance without passion, and that’s tragic,”
psychology professor Angela Duckworth, author of the book Grit, told us.
“Perseverance without passion is mere drudgery.” She wants young people to
“devote themselves to pursuits that are intrinsically fulfilling.”40
The college admissions process nowadays makes it harder for high school
students to enjoy school and pursue intrinsic fulfillment. The process “warps
the values of students drawn into a competitive frenzy” and “jeopardizes their
mental health,”41 says Frank Bruni, a New York Times columnist and author
of Where You Go Is Not Who You Will Be: An Antidote to the College

Admissions Mania. Nowhere is that more apparent than in suicide clusters at
highly competitive high schools, such as those in Palo Alto, California, and
the suburbs of Boston, which have been profiled in The Atlantic42 and The
New York Times.43 In a 2015 survey, 95% of students at Lexington High
School in Massachusetts reported “a lot of stress” or “extreme stress” about
their classes, and in a 2016 study, the Centers for Disease Control reported
that the teen suicide rate in Palo Alto, California, was more than four times
the national average.44
And it is precisely these elite, wealthy, and hypercompetitive school
districts that provide the largest share of students at the top universities in the
United States.45 “Students are prepared academically, but they’re not prepared
to deal with day-to-day life,” says Gray, “which comes from a lack of
opportunity to deal with ordinary problems.”46 One paradox of uppermiddle-class American life is that some of the things parents and schools do
to help kids get admitted to college may make them less able to thrive once
they’re there.

Childhood as Democracy Prep
The effects of play deprivation and oversupervision may extend far beyond
college. Steven Horwitz, an economist at Ball State University in Indiana,
took the same research on play that we have reviewed in this chapter and
worked out some possible consequences for the future of liberal
democracies.47 He drew on the work of political scientists Elinor Ostrom48
and Vincent Ostrom,49 both of whom studied how self-governing
communities resolve conflicts peacefully. Successful democracies do this by
developing a variety of institutions and norms that enable people with
different goals and conflicting desires to resolve their problems while rarely
appealing to the police or the state to coerce their fellow citizens. This is the
“art of association” that so impressed Alexis de Tocqueville when he traveled
through the United States in 1835.
Citizens of a democracy don’t suddenly develop this art on their
eighteenth birthday. It takes many years to cultivate these skills, which
overlap with the ones that Peter Gray maintains are learned during free play.

Of greatest importance in free play is that it is always voluntary; anyone can
quit at any time and disrupt the activity, so children must pay close attention
to the needs and concerns of others if they want to keep the game going. They
must work out conflicts over fairness on their own; no adult can be called
upon to side with one child against another.
Horwitz points out that when adult-supervised activities crowd out free
play, children are less likely to develop the art of association:
Denying children the freedom to explore on their own takes away important
learning opportunities that help them to develop not just independence and
responsibility, but a whole variety of social skills that are central to living
with others in a free society. If this argument is correct, parenting strategies
and laws that make it harder for kids to play on their own pose a serious
threat to liberal societies by flipping our default setting from “figure out how
to solve this conflict on your own” to “invoke force and/or third parties
whenever conflict arises.” This is one of the “vulnerabilities of democracies”
noted by Vincent Ostrom.50

The consequences for democracies could be dire, particularly for a
democracy such as the United States, which is already suffering from everrising cross-party hostility51 and declining trust in institutions.52 Here is what
Horwitz fears could be in store:
A society that weakens children’s ability to learn these skills denies them
what they need to smooth social interaction. The coarsening of social
interaction that will result will create a world of more conflict and violence,
and one in which people’s first instinct will be increasingly to invoke
coercion by other parties to solve problems they ought to be able to solve
themselves.53

This is what Greg began to see around 2013: increasing calls from students
for administrators and professors to regulate who can say what, who gets to
speak on campus, and how students should interact with one another, even in
private settings. The calls for more regulation and the bureaucratic impulse to
provide that regulation are the subject of our next chapter.
We end this chapter, however, on a more positive note. In contrast to all
the unwisdom kids are exposed to in the form of the three Great Untruths,

here is a better way to frame the experiences of childhood and adolescence. In
June 2017, John Roberts, the chief justice of the United States, was invited to
be the commencement speaker at his son’s graduation from middle school.
Like Van Jones (whom we quoted in chapter 4), Roberts understands
antifragility. He wishes for his son’s classmates to have the sorts of painful
experiences that will make them better people and better citizens.54 Here is an
excerpt from his speech:
From time to time in the years to come, I hope you will be treated unfairly,
so that you will come to know the value of justice. I hope that you will suffer
betrayal because that will teach you the importance of loyalty. Sorry to say,
but I hope you will be lonely from time to time so that you don’t take friends
for granted. I wish you bad luck, again, from time to time so that you will be
conscious of the role of chance in life and understand that your success is
not completely deserved and that the failure of others is not completely
deserved either. And when you lose, as you will from time to time, I hope
every now and then, your opponent will gloat over your failure. It is a way
for you to understand the importance of sportsmanship. I hope you’ll be
ignored so you know the importance of listening to others, and I hope you
will have just enough pain to learn compassion. Whether I wish these things
or not, they’re going to happen. And whether you benefit from them or not
will depend upon your ability to see the message in your misfortunes.55

In Sum
The decline of unsupervised free play is our fourth explanatory thread.
Children, like other mammals, need free play in order to finish the
intricate wiring process of neural development. Children deprived of
free play are likely to be less competent—physically and socially—as
adults. They are likely to be less tolerant of risk, and more prone to
anxiety disorders.
Free play, according to Peter Gray, is “activity that is freely chosen and
directed by the participants and undertaken for its own sake, not
consciously pursued to achieve ends that are distinct from the activity
itself.” This is the kind of play that play experts say is most valuable for

children, yet it is also the kind of play that has declined most sharply in
the lives of American children.
The decline in free play was likely driven by several factors, including
an unrealistic fear of strangers and kidnapping (since the 1980s); the
rising competitiveness for admission to top universities (over many
decades); a rising emphasis on testing, test preparation, and homework;
and a corresponding deemphasis on physical and social skills (since the
early 2000s).
The rising availability of smartphones and social media interacted with
these other trends, and the combination has greatly changed the way
American children spend their time and the kinds of physical and
social experiences that guide the intricate wiring process of neural
development.
Free play helps children develop the skills of cooperation and dispute
resolution that are closely related to the “art of association” upon which
democracies depend. When citizens are not skilled in this art, they are
less able to work out the ordinary conflicts of daily life. They will more
frequently call for authorities to apply coercive force to their
opponents. They will be more likely to welcome the bureaucracy of
safetyism.

CHAPTER 10

The Bureaucracy of Safetyism
The sovereign power [or soft despot] extends its arms over the entire
society; it covers the surface of society with a network of small,
complicated, minute, and uniform rules . . . it does not tyrannize, it
hinders, it represses, it enervates, it extinguishes, it stupefies, and finally it
reduces each nation to being nothing more than a flock of timid and
industrious animals, of which the government is the shepherd.
ALEXIS DE TOCQUEVILLE, Democracy in America1

R

emember the thought experiment in chapter 2, in which you visited
your campus counseling center and the psychologist there made you
more anxious rather than less?
Now, imagine it’s a few days after your visit, and you receive an email
from the associate dean of students with “Conduct Policy Reminder” in the
subject line. You open it nervously, wondering why the associate dean would
be reminding you about the conduct policy. You can’t remember doing
anything that might violate it. The note reads:
I received a report that others are worried about your well-being. I’d like to
meet with you to discuss your options for support and see what I can do to
help. . . . Engaging in any discussion of suicidal or self-destructive thoughts
or actions with other students interferes with, or can hinder, their pursuit of
education and community. It is important that you refrain from discussing
these issues with other students and use the appropriate resources listed
below. If you involve other students in suicidal or self-destructive thoughts
or actions, you will face disciplinary action. My hope is that, knowing exactly

what could result in discipline, you can avoid putting yourself in that
position.2

You are confused. You didn’t mention anything about “suicidal or selfdestructive thoughts or actions” when you visited the counseling center, and
you have no intention of hurting yourself. A thousand thoughts rush through
your head: How did the associate dean of students find out about your visit to
the center? Isn’t therapy supposed to be confidential? Why is the dean
sending you a warning and a threat? And can the dean really tell you what
you can and can’t say to your friends?
This scenario is not fiction. In 2015, a student at Northern Michigan
University (NMU) visited the campus counseling center to get help in the
aftermath of being sexually assaulted the year before. She did not mention
anything about self-harm or suicidal thoughts during her session, yet the
email she received from NMU’s associate dean of students included the exact
text we quoted above. And she was not alone; 25–30 NMU students per
semester received a version of that letter—whether or not they had expressed
thoughts about suicide or self-harm.3 It was NMU’s policy that students could
be disciplined (and even expelled) for revealing these kinds of thoughts to
other students. Given that the misguided policy was both stigmatizing and
likely to put suicidal students at increased risk, mental health professionals
roundly criticized the policy. Nevertheless, in an interview with a local
newspaper, the dean defended the practice, claiming that “relying on your
friends can be very disruptive to them.”4 Please read that quote again. The
dean seemed to believe that if students talked about their suffering, it would
harm their friends. It is an illustration of the Untruth of Fragility (What
doesn’t kill you makes you weaker) trumping common sense and basic
humanity.
What could compel a university—and, in particular, its associate dean of
students—to be so callous? This kind of administrative overkill was what first
got Greg thinking about the ways in which universities teach cognitive
distortions. When he started studying CBT in 2008, he saw administrators
acting in ways that encouraged students to embrace a distorted sense that
they lacked resilience—acting as if students could not handle uncomfortable
conversations with, or relatively small slights from, their fellow students. In
order to fully grasp the success of the three Great Untruths on campus, it’s

essential to understand how a growing campus bureaucracy has been
unintentionally encouraging these bad intellectual habits for years, and how
they still do today. This is our fifth explanatory thread.

The Corporatization of College
When the federal Office of Education began collecting data in 1869, there
were only 63,000 students enrolled in higher education institutions
throughout the United States; they represented just 1 percent of all eighteento twenty-four-year-olds.5 Today, an estimated 20 million students are
enrolled in American higher education, including roughly 40% of all
eighteen- to twenty-four-year-olds.6 In the 2015–2016 school year, the most
recent year for which statistics are available, combined revenues at U.S.
postsecondary institutions totaled about $548 billion.7 (A country with that
GDP, to give a sense of scale, would rank twenty-first, between Argentina and
Saudi Arabia.)8 At the end of the 2015 fiscal year, the U.S. universities with
the 120 largest endowments held a total of $547 billion.9 U.S. elite institutions
draw substantial international enrollment,10 and seventeen of the top twentyfive universities in the world are in the United States.11 The enormous
expansion of scope, scale, and wealth demands professionalization,
specialization, and a lot of support staff.
In 1963, Clark Kerr, the president of the University of California system,
called the resulting structure the “multiversity.” In a multiversity, different
departments and power structures within a university pursue different goals
in parallel—for example, research, education, fundraising, branding, and legal
compliance.12 Kerr predicted that as faculty increasingly focused on their own
departments, noninstructional employees would take over in leading the
institution. As he anticipated, the number of administrators has climbed
upward.13 At the same time, their responsibilities have crept outward.14
Some administrative growth is necessary and sensible, but when the rate
of that expansion is several times higher than the rate of faculty hiring,15 there
are significant downsides, most obviously the increase in the cost of a college
degree.16 A less immediately obvious downside is that goals other than
academic excellence begin to take priority as universities come to resemble

large corporations—a trend often bemoaned as “corporatization.”17 Political
scientist Benjamin Ginsberg, author of the 2011 book The Fall of the Faculty:
The Rise of the All-Administrative University and Why It Matters, argues that
over the decades, as the administration has grown, the faculty, who used to
play a major role in university governance, have ceded much of that power to
nonfaculty administrators.18 He notes that once the class of administrative
specialists was established and became more distinct from the professor class,
it was virtually certain to expand; administrators are more likely than
professors to think that the way to solve a new campus problem is to create a
new office to address the problem.19 (Meanwhile, professors have generally
been happy to be released from administrative duties, even as they complain
about corporatization.)

The Customer Is Always Right
A hallmark of the campus protests that began in 2015 was irresolute and
accommodating responses by university leadership. Few schools imposed any
kind of penalty on students for shouting down speakers or disrupting classes,
even though these actions usually violated their own codes of conduct. Like
George Bridges at Evergreen, many university presidents accepted
ultimatums from students and then tried to meet many of the demands,
usually without a word of criticism of the students’ tactics.20 Critics of this
approach have pointed out that this is the way organizations respond when
their governing ethos is one of “customer service.”
Eric Adler, a classics professor at the University of Maryland, distilled the
argument in a 2018 Washington Post article. “The fundamental cause [of
campus intolerance],” he suggests, “isn’t students’ extreme leftism or any
other political ideology” but “a market-driven decision by universities, made
decades ago, to treat students as consumers—who pay up to $60,000 per year
for courses, excellent cuisine, comfortable accommodations and a lively
campus life.” On the subject of students preventing certain people from
speaking on campus, he explains:

Even at public universities, 18-year-olds are purchasing what is essentially
a luxury product. Is it any wonder they feel entitled to control the
experience? . . . Students, accustomed to authoring every facet of their
college experience, now want their institutions to mirror their views. If the
customers can determine the curriculum and select all their desired
amenities, it stands to reason that they should also determine which
speakers ought to be invited to campus and what opinions can be
articulated in their midst. For today’s students, one might say, speakers are
amenities.21

The consumerization theory fits with the trend toward greater spending
on lifestyle amenities, which schools use when they compete with other
schools to attract top students. From 2003 to 2013, public research
universities increased spending on student services by 22.3%, which was far
more than the increases for research (9.5%) or instruction (9.4%).22 Many
campuses have become less like scholarly monasteries and more like
luxurious “country clubs.”23 The trend is exemplified by Louisiana State
University’s 536-foot-long “lazy river,” paid for with $85 million in student
fees. The slow-moving current gently pushes floating students through a
winding pool in the shape of the school’s initials, LSU.24 At the ribbon cutting
for the lazy river, LSU’s president explained how his vision of education
combines consumerism and safetyism: “Quite frankly, I don’t want you to
leave the campus ever. So whatever we need to do to keep you here, we’ll keep
you safe here. We’re here to give you everything you need.”25

How Campus Administrators Model Distorted Thinking
The shift toward seeing students as consumers explains a lot, but it cannot
explain what happened at Northern Michigan University, or what
administrators are thinking when they restrict the speech of their
“customers.” To comprehend those events, we need to understand other
forces acting on administrators, including the fear of bad publicity and
threats of litigation. Administrators are bombarded with directives (from inhouse counsel, outside risk-management professionals, the school’s public
relations team, and the upper echelons of the administration) that they must

limit the university’s legal liability in everything from personal injury lawsuits
to wrongful termination, and from intellectual property to wrongful-death
actions. This is one reason they are so keen to regulate what students do and
say.
In the first decade of the twenty-first century, FIRE was the only
organization entirely focused on free speech, academic freedom, and due
process on college campuses. The lack of public attention to free speech on
campus during that decade is understandable given that the speech at the
center of the debate was often rather unsympathetic—like what one professor
said on September 11, 2001, when he joked, “anybody who can blow up the
Pentagon has my vote.” Eventually he lost his job. From a First Amendment
standpoint, however, the cases were clear-cut. The amendment’s bedrock
principle is that offensiveness alone is no justification for banning or
restricting speech—especially on campus.26
For most of Greg’s career, students were consistently the most tolerant
and pro–free speech constituency on campus—even more so than the faculty.
Around 2013, however, Greg began to notice a change. More students seemed
to be in agreement with administrators that they were unsafe, that many
aspects of students’ lives needed to be carefully regulated by adults, and that it
was far better to overreact to potential risks and threats than to underreact. In
this way, campus administrators—usually with the best of intentions—were
modeling distorted thinking.27
Two categories of First Amendment cases on campus encourage this kind
of thinking quite directly: overreaction and overregulation.

OVERREACTION CASES

We define overreaction cases exactly as the name suggests: they are
disproportionate responses to perceived offenses. Almost all overreaction
cases model the mental habit of catastrophizing, and communicate that
disaster would result without the intervention of the administration.28 Here
are two examples:
Bergen Community College (New Jersey, 2014): An art professor was
placed on leave without pay and sent to psychological counseling for a

social media post. The post showed a photograph of his young
daughter wearing a T-shirt that depicted a dragon and the words I WILL
TAKE WHAT IS MINE WITH FIRE & BLOOD, which the school claimed was
“threatening.” The professor explained that the shirt referenced the
popular TV series Game of Thrones, but an administrator insisted that
“fire” could refer to an AK-47.29
Oakton Community College (Illinois, 2015): A professor received a
cease-and-desist letter from his college based on a one-sentence email
he had sent to a few colleagues. His email noted that May Day is a time
“when workers across the world celebrate their struggle for union
rights and remember the Haymarket riot in Chicago.” The college
alleged that the reference to the 1886 riot was threatening to the college
president, because she was one of the recipients of the email. Why?
Because the rally “resulted in 11 deaths and more than 70 people
injured.”30 Of course, many major American holidays commemorate
events that were far more costly in terms of lives lost. But when a
reference is made to Memorial Day, Veterans Day, or even the Fourth
of July, nobody assumes it is a threat.

OVERREGULATION CASES

Overregulation is less about policing actual offenses than it is about
preventing potential offense. It is like a continuation of overprotective
helicopter parenting: administrators tightly regulate students in order to keep
them “safe.” Speech remains a common target of overregulation, even though
there have been more than seventy lawsuits against speech codes since the
dawn of “politically correct” speech codes in the late 1980s. Almost all the
codes challenged in court have been revised, abandoned, or ruled
unconstitutional.
Here are two of the most absurd categories of speech regulation that keep
popping up on American college campuses:
1. Vague and Overbroad Speech Codes: The code that epitomized the
vagueness and breadth of the first wave of modern PC speech codes
(roughly, the late 1980s to the mid-1990s) was the University of

Connecticut’s ban on “inappropriately directed laughter.” The school
was sued. It dropped the code as part of a settlement in 1990, but the
same code, verbatim, was in effect at Drexel University in
Philadelphia fifteen years later. That code was eventually repealed
after being named one of FIRE’s “Speech Codes of the Month.”31
Along similar lines, a speech code at Alabama’s Jacksonville State
University provided that “no student shall offend anyone on
University property,” and the University of West Alabama’s code
prohibited “harsh text messages or emails.”32 These codes teach
students to use an overbroad and entirely subjective standard for
determining wrongdoing. They also exemplify the Untruth of
Emotional Reasoning: Always trust your feelings. If you feel offended,
then a punishable offense must have occurred. Speech codes like these
teach the Untruth of Fragility as well. They communicate that
offensive speech or inappropriate laughter might be so damaging that
administrators must step in to protect vulnerable and fragile students.
And they empower college administrators to ensure that authority
figures are always available to “resolve” verbal conflicts.
2. Free Speech Zones: Universities never seem to tire of creating “free
speech zones,” which restrict certain kinds of speech and expression
to tiny and often remote parts of campus. FSZs seem to have first
appeared in the 1960s and ’70s as honored places where students
could always engage in free speech, like Speakers’ Corner in London’s
Hyde Park. But in the 1990s, many campuses made them the only
places students could engage in free speech on campus. Some FSZs
were revised after coming under public scrutiny and criticism, such as
at McNeese State University in Louisiana, where student groups’ use
of FSZs were limited to once per semester.33 Some have been struck
down by courts, such as the University of Cincinnati’s FSZ, which
covered 0.1% of campus and required speakers to register ten business
days in advance.34 And yet schools continue to maintain them.
If you look at a college student handbook today, you’ll find policies
affecting many other aspects of students’ lives, including what they can post

on social media, what they can say in the dormitories to one another, and
what they can do off campus—including what organizations they can join.35
Overreaction and overregulation are usually the work of people within
bureaucratic structures who have developed a mindset commonly known as
CYA (Cover Your Ass). They know they can be held responsible for any
problem that arises on their watch, especially if they took no action to prevent
it, so they often adopt a defensive stance. In their minds, overreacting is better
than underreacting, overregulating is better than underregulating, and
caution is better than courage. This attitude reinforces the safetyism mindset
that many students learn in childhood.

See Something, Say Something
It certainly did not help that today’s college students were raised in the fearful
years after the attacks of September 11, 2001. Ever since that awful day, the
U.S. government has been telling us: “If you see something, say something.”
Even adults are told to follow their most anxious feelings, as you can see in
Figure 10.1. It’s a video sign at a New Jersey train station. New Jersey Transit
urges its passengers to embrace the Untruth of Emotional Reasoning: Always
trust your feelings. “If it doesn’t feel right, it probably isn’t,” says the sign. But
that can’t really be true. In all likelihood, there are millions of moments each
year when some American somewhere thinks that something “doesn’t feel
right” and worries about an attack. However, there are only a few terrorist
attacks of any kind each year in the United States,36 so in almost every case,
the feeling is wrong. Of course, passengers on New Jersey Transit should alert
someone if they see an abandoned backpack or suitcase, but that doesn’t
mean that their feelings are “probably” right.

FIGURE 10.1. Video sign in the train station at Secaucus Junction, New Jersey. (Photo

by Lenore Skenazy.)

Young people have come to believe that danger lurks everywhere, even in
the classroom, and even in private conversations. Everyone must be vigilant
and report threats to the authorities. At New York University in 2016, for
example, administrators placed signs in the restrooms urging everyone to
take a “feel-something say-something” approach to speech. The signs outline
for members of the NYU community how to report one another
anonymously if they experience “bias, discrimination, or harassment,”
including by calling a “Bias Response Line.”37 NYU is not an outlier; a 2017
report by FIRE found that, of the 471 institutions cataloged in FIRE’s
Spotlight on Speech Codes database, 38.4% (181) maintain some form of bias
reporting system.38
Of course, there should be an easy way to report cases of true harassment
and employment discrimination; such actions are immoral and unlawful. But
bias alone is not harassment or discrimination. The term is not defined on the
NYU Bias Response website, but psychological experiments have consistently
shown that to be human is to have biases. We are biased toward ourselves and
our ingroups, toward attractive people, toward people who have done us
favors, and even toward people who share our name or birthday.39
Presumably the administrators running the Bias Response Line are most

interested in negative biases based on identity categories, such as race, gender,
and sexual orientation. But given the high levels of concept creep on
university campuses and the widespread idea that microaggressions are
ubiquitous and dangerous, there are sure to be some students who have a very
low threshold for detecting bias in others and attributing ambiguous
statements to prejudice.
It becomes more difficult to develop a sense of trust between professors
and students in such an environment. The Bias Response Line allows students
to report a professor for something said or shown even before the lecture has
ended. Many professors now say that they are “teaching on tenterhooks” or
“walking on eggshells,”40 which means that fewer of them are willing to try
anything provocative in the classroom—or cover important but difficult
course material. For example, writing about her experience teaching sexual
assault law, Professor Jeannie Suk Gersen of Harvard Law School observed in
The New Yorker that “asking students to challenge each other in discussions
of rape law has become so difficult that teachers are starting to give up on the
subject. . . . If the topic of sexual assault were to leave the law-school
classroom, it would be a tremendous loss—above all to victims of sexual
assault.”41
To show just one example of how bias response systems discourage risktaking: University of Northern Colorado adjunct professor Mike Jensen was
called to multiple meetings after a single student filed a “Bias Incident
Report” following a discussion of controversial topics in a first-year writing
class.42 The first reading assigned in the class was our Atlantic article, “The
Coddling of the American Mind.” The professor asked the class to read the
article and then engage in a discussion of a controversial topic, to be chosen
by the class. The topic that the students chose was transgender issues. (One of
the biggest stories that semester had been the revelation of Caitlyn Jenner’s
identity as a trans woman.) Jensen suggested that students read an article
about parents objecting to a transgender high school student using the girls’
locker room. He explained that although most of the students might not agree
with these skeptical views, in academia, grappling with difficult and
controversial perspectives is expected, so it was important that even these
viewpoints be discussed. Jensen later recalled the conversation as “a very nice
discussion of seeing other perspectives.”43 He was surprised when he learned
that a student had filed a Bias Incident Report against him.44 He was advised

to avoid the topic of transgender issues for the rest of the semester and was
ultimately not rehired.45
The bureaucratic innovation of “bias response” tools may be well
intended,46 but they can have the unintended negative effect of creating an “us
versus them” campus climate that results in hypervigilance and reduced trust.
Some professors end up concluding that it isn’t worth the risk of having to
appear before a bureaucratic panel, so it’s better to just eliminate any material
from the syllabus or lecture that could lead to a complaint. Then, as more and
more professors shy away from potentially provocative materials and
discussion topics, their students miss out on opportunities to develop
intellectual antifragility. As a result, they may come to find even more
material offensive and require even more protection.

Harassment and Concept Creep
Universities have an important moral and legal duty to prevent harassment
on campus. What counts as harassment, however, has changed quite a lot in
recent years. Modern conceptions of discriminatory harassment have their
origins in Titles VI and VII of the Civil Rights Act of 1964. Title IX of the
Education Amendments of 1972 expanded these statutes, prohibiting colleges
that receive federal funds from discriminating against women with respect to
educational opportunity. This protection was overdue and includes
discrimination via harassment.47
Under these statutes, the bar for what counts as harassment is high: a
pattern of severe behavior that “effectively denies access to an educational
opportunity or benefit.”48 The pattern of behavior must also be
discriminatory—that is, directed at someone who belongs to a protected class
named in the statute, such as gender, race, or religion.49 In practice, however,
the bar has been lowered; many universities use the concept of harassment to
justify punishing one-time utterances that could be construed as offensive but
don’t really look anything like harassment—and some don’t have anything to
do with race or gender. For example, in 2005, at the University of Central
Florida, a student was charged with harassment through “personal abuse” for
creating a Facebook group that called a student government candidate a “Jerk

and a Fool.”50 Perhaps you find that wrong or offensive, but should
administrators be standing by, ready to step in whenever anyone feels
offended?51 Or consider the case in which a student who worked as a janitor
at his college was sanctioned because he was seen reading a book called Notre
Dame vs. the Klan: How the Fighting Irish Defeated the Ku Klux Klan, a book
that celebrates the defeat of the Klan when they marched on Notre Dame in
the 1920s. (The image on the cover was upsetting to the two people who
reported him.)52 Lowering the bar that far trivializes the real harm that true
harassment can do—and frequently does—to students’ education.53 The
purpose of these laws is to protect students from unlawful acts, not to
empower censors.
Nonetheless, in the 1980s, colleges defended the earliest codes as
antiharassment codes. Courts had no trouble seeing through this kind of
explanation and routinely struck down the codes of this era,54 beginning in
1989 with the University of Michigan’s speech code, which prohibited
creating a “demeaning” environment through speech that “stigmatizes or
victimizes an individual.55 Yet even after numerous court defeats, universities
claimed that the Department of Education required speech codes in order to
comply with Title IX and other civil rights laws.56
In 2013, the Departments of Education and Justice issued a sweeping new
definition of harassment: any “unwelcome conduct of a sexual nature,”
including “verbal, nonverbal, or physical conduct.”57 This definition was not
limited to speech that would be offensive to a reasonable person, nor did it
require that the alleged target actually be offended—both requirements of
traditional harassment claims. By eliminating the reasonable-person
standard, harassment was left to be defined by the self-reported subjective
experience of every member of the university community. It was, in effect,
emotional reasoning turned into a federal regulation.
The best example of how Title IX’s expanded notions of harassment have
come to threaten free speech and academic freedom comes from the case of
Northwestern University professor Laura Kipnis. In a May 2015 Chronicle of
Higher Education essay, Kipnis criticized what she saw as “sexual paranoia”
on her campus, arising from changing attitudes toward sex, and new ideas in
feminism that she found disempowering. She wrote:
The feminism I identified with as a student stressed independence and

resilience. In the intervening years, the climate of sanctimony about student
vulnerability has grown too thick to penetrate; no one dares question it lest
you’re labeled antifeminist.58

Kipnis’s essay criticized Northwestern’s sexual misconduct policies—in
particular, the prohibition on romantic relationships between adult students
and faculty or staff. She also mentioned a graduate student’s Title IX
complaint against a professor. After her article was published, Kipnis was the
target of protests from student activists, who carried mattresses across
campus and demanded that the administration condemn the article. Then
two graduate students filed a Title IX complaint against Kipnis, claiming that
her article created a hostile environment. This resulted in a secret Title IX
investigation of Kipnis that lasted seventy-two days.59 (It ended after she
published another article in the Chronicle, titled “My Title IX Inquisition.”)
When she wrote a book about her experience, she was subjected to yet
another Title IX investigation, this time stemming from complaints by four
Northwestern faculty members and six graduate students, who claimed that
her book’s discussion of both Title IX and false sexual misconduct
accusations violated the university’s policies on retaliation and sexual
harassment.60 This second investigation lasted a month. She was asked to
respond to more than eighty written questions about her book and to turn
over her source material.61 While both of these investigations were eventually
dropped, from beginning to end, the process took more than two years.62
Kipnis noted after her ordeal:
My sense was that all of these protections were not making people less
vulnerable, they were making people more vulnerable. . . . [Students are]
going to be impeded when they leave university and go out into the world,
and nobody is going to protect them from the multitudes of injuries and
slights and that kind of thing that we all have to deal with in the course of
daily life.63

How to Foster Moral Dependency

In a prescient essay in 2014, two sociologists—Bradley Campbell and Jason
Manning—explained where this new culture of vulnerability came from and
how administrative actions helped it to grow.64 They called it “victimhood
culture,” and they interpreted it as a new moral order that was in conflict with
the older “dignity culture,” which is still dominant in most parts of the United
States and other Western democracies.
In an optimally functioning dignity culture, people are assumed to have
dignity and worth regardless of what others think of them, so they are not
expected to react too strongly to minor slights. Of course, full dignity was at
one time accorded only to adult, white men; the rights revolutions of the
twentieth and twenty-first centuries did essential work to expand dignity to
all. This is in contrast to the older “honor cultures,” in which men were so
obsessed with guarding their reputations that they were expected to react
violently to minor insults made against them or those close to them—perhaps
with a challenge to a duel. In a dignity culture, however, dueling seems
ridiculous. People are expected to have enough self-control to shrug off
irritations, slights, and minor conflicts as they pursue their own projects. For
larger conflicts or violations of one’s rights, there are reliable legal or
administrative remedies, but it would be undignified to call for such help for
small matters, which one should be able to resolve on one’s own. Perspective
is a key element of a dignity culture; people don’t view disagreements,
unintentional slights, or even direct insults as threats to their dignity that
must always be met with a response.
For example, one clear sign of a dignity culture is that children learn some
version of “Sticks and stones will break my bones, but words will never harm
me.” That childhood saying is of course not literally true—people feel real
pain as a result of words. (If no one felt hurt by words, the saying would never
be needed.) But “sticks and stones” is a shield that children in a dignity
culture use to dismiss an insult with contemptuous indifference, as if to say,
“Go ahead and insult me. You cannot upset me. I really don’t care what you
think.”
In 2013, Campbell and Manning began noticing the same changes on
campus that Greg had been noticing—the interlocking set of new ideas about
microaggressions, trigger warnings, and safe spaces. They noted that the
emerging morality of victimhood culture was radically different from dignity
culture. They defined a victimhood culture as having three distinct attributes:

First, “individuals and groups display high sensitivity to slight”; second, they
“have a tendency to handle conflicts through complaints to third parties”; and
third, they “seek to cultivate an image of being victims who deserve
assistance.”65
Of special relevance to our concerns in this chapter is the second attribute.
Campbell and Manning pointed out that the presence of administrators or
legal authorities who can be persuaded to take one’s side and intervene is a
prerequisite for the emergence of victimhood culture. They noted that when
administrative remedies are easily available and there is no shame in calling
on them, it can lead to a condition known as “moral dependence.” People
come to rely on external authorities to resolve their problems, and, over time,
“their willingness or ability to use other forms of conflict management may
atrophy.”66
This is the concern that Kipnis voiced when she said that overprotective
policies make students more vulnerable instead of less, and that schools are
creating a culture of vulnerability. This is the concern that Erika Christakis
expressed when she wrote that “the growing tendency to cultivate
vulnerability in students carries unacknowledged costs,” and asked students
to talk to each other rather than relying on administrative interventions.67
And it’s the same concern about overprotection that prompted Lenore
Skenazy to start the Free-Range Kids movement.
It is also the concern that Steven Horwitz raised (and we discussed at the
end of chapter 9) about oversupervision impeding the development of the art
of association. A university that encourages moral dependence is a university
that is likely to experience chronic conflict, which may then lead to more
demands for administrative remedies and protections, which may then lead
to more moral dependence.

In Sum
The growth of campus bureaucracy and the expansion of its protective
mission is our fifth explanatory thread.
Administrators generally have good intentions; they are trying to
protect the university and its students. But good intentions can

sometimes lead to policies that are bad for students. At Northern
Michigan University, a policy that we assume was designed to protect
the university from liability led to inhumane treatment of students
seeking therapy.
In response to a variety of factors, including federal mandates and the
risk of lawsuits, the number of campus administrators has grown more
rapidly than the number of professors, and professors have gradually
come to play a smaller role in the administration of universities. The
result has been a trend toward “corporatization.”
At the same time, market pressures, along with an increasingly
consumerist mentality about higher education, have encouraged
universities to compete on the basis of the amenities they offer, leading
them to think of students as customers whom they must please.
Campus administrators must juggle many responsibilities and protect
the university from many kinds of liabilities, so they tend to adopt a
“better safe than sorry” (or “CYA”) approach to issuing new
regulations. The proliferation of regulations over time conveys a sense
of imminent danger even when there is little or no real threat. In this
way, administrators model multiple cognitive distortions, promote the
Untruth of Fragility, and contribute to the culture of safetyism.
Some of the regulations promulgated by administrators restrict
freedom of speech, often with highly subjective definitions of key
concepts. These rules contribute to an attitude on campus that chills
speech, in part by suggesting that freedom of speech can or should be
restricted because of some students’ emotional discomfort. This teaches
catastrophizing and mind reading (among other cognitive distortions)
and promotes the Untruth of Emotional Reasoning.
One recent administrative innovation is the creation of “Bias Response
Lines” and “Bias Response Teams,” which make it easy for members of
a campus community to report one another anonymously for “bias.”
This “feel something, say something” approach is likely to erode trust
within a community. It may also make professors less willing to try
innovative or provocative teaching methods; they, too, may develop a
CYA approach.
More generally, efforts to protect students by creating bureaucratic
means of resolving problems and conflicts can have the unintended

consequence of fostering moral dependence, which may reduce
students’ ability to resolve conflicts independently both during and
after college.

CHAPTER 11

The Quest for Justice
Justice is the first virtue of social institutions, as truth is of systems of
thought.
JOHN RAWLS, A Theory of Justice1

H

ere’s a quirk about American politics: the majority of white
Americans vote for Republicans for president, unless they were born
after 1981 or between 1950 and 1954. Why those who were born after
1981 vote differently is easy to understand. They are Millennials or iGen; they
lean left on most social issues and many economic ones (as Bernie Sanders
discovered). They are less religious than previous generations, and the
Republican Party turns them off in a variety of ways. But what’s the story for
those born from 1950 to 1954? They strongly favored Democrats through the
1980s and have been roughly evenly divided since then, with a slight lean
overall toward the Democrats. (You can see this for yourself, and play with
one of the best interactive political infographics ever, by searching the
internet for “How Birth Year Influences Political Views.”2)
Why is there a little demographic island of Democrats among white
Americans born in the early 1950s? Why do they vote differently in the
twenty-first century than their siblings who were born a few years before or
after them in the middle of the twentieth century?
The answer might be 1968. Or, rather, the period of emotionally intense
national political events of 1968 and the years around it (roughly 1965–
1972).3 The political scientists Yair Ghitza and Andrew Gelman examined
voting patterns of Americans to see whether political events or the political

climate in childhood left some kind of mark on people’s later political
orientation.4 They found that there is a window of higher impressionability
running from about age fourteen to twenty-four, with its peak right around
age eighteen. Political events—or perhaps the overall zeitgeist as people
perceive it—are more likely to “stick” during that period than outside that age
range.
For Americans born in the early 1950s, all you have to do to evoke visceral
flashbacks to 1968 is say things like: MLK, RFK, Black Panthers, Tet offensive,
My Lai, Chicago Democratic National Convention, Richard Nixon. If those
words don’t flood you with feelings, then do an internet search for “Chuck
Braverman 1968.” The five-minute video montage5 will leave you speechless.
Just imagine what it must have been like to be a young adult developing a
political identity, perhaps newly arrived on a college campus, as momentous
moral struggles, tragedies, and victories happened all around you.
We are in another such era today, and if Ghitza and Gelman are correct,
then the events and the political climate of the last few years may influence
the way today’s college students vote for the rest of their lives. Suppose you
were born in 1995, the first year of iGen. You entered your politically most
impressionable period when you turned fourteen, in 2009, just as Barack
Obama was being sworn in. You got your first iPhone a year or two later as
smartphones became common among teenagers. If you went to college, you
probably arrived on campus in 2013, the year you turned eighteen. What were
the political events that you and your new friends were talking about, posting
about, and protesting about? What were the issues on which you had to stake
out your position with your tweets, posts, and “likes”? The government
shutdown of October 2013? The long rise of the stock market?
Not likely. The interests and activism of teens have far more to do with
social issues and injustices than with purely economic or political concerns,
and the 2010s have been extraordinarily rich in such issues. The table below
shows a small sampling of the major news stories related to what is
commonly known as “social justice” in each year since the first members of
iGen turned fourteen. In 2009 and 2010, some of the largest news stories in
the United States were the ongoing financial crisis, health care reform, and
the rise of the Tea Party. You can see that high-profile social justice stories
become more numerous in subsequent years, just as the first members of
iGen were preparing to go off to college.

YEAR

MAJOR NEWS STORIES RELATED TO SOCIAL JUSTICE

2009

Inauguration of Barack Obama

2010

Tyler Clementi suicide (raises awareness of bullying of LGBT youth)

2011

Occupy Wall Street (raises awareness of income inequality)

2012

Killing of Trayvon Martin; reelection of Barack Obama; Sandy Hook elementary school massacre
(raises interest in gun control)

2013

George Zimmerman acquitted of murder in the death of Trayvon Martin; Black Lives Matter
founded

2014

Police killing of Michael Brown in Ferguson, Missouri; police killing of Eric Garner in New York
City (with video); Black Lives Matter protests spread across America; lead in drinking water in
Flint, Michigan, raises awareness of “environmental justice”

2015

Supreme Court legalizes gay marriage; Caitlyn Jenner publicly identifies as a woman; white
supremacist Dylann Roof massacres nine black worshipers in Charleston, South Carolina;
Confederate flags removed from state capitol in South Carolina; police killing of Walter Scott (with
video); universities erupt in protest over racism, beginning at Missouri and Yale, then spreading to
dozens of others

2016

Terrorist Omar Mateen kills forty-nine in attack on gay nightclub in Orlando, Florida; police killing
of Alton Sterling (with video); police killing of Philando Castile (with video); killing of five police
officers in Dallas; quarterback Colin Kaepernick refuses to stand for national anthem; North
Carolina requires transgender people to use bathrooms corresponding to the sex on their birth
certificates; protest against Dakota Access Pipeline at Standing Rock Indian Reservation;
nomination and election of Donald Trump

2017

Trump inauguration; Trump attempts to enact various “Muslim bans”; women’s march in
Washington; violent protests against campus speakers at UC Berkeley and Middlebury; Trump
bans transgender people from military service; Trump praises “very fine people” in Charlottesville
march, during which a neo-Nazi kills Heather Heyer and injures others by driving a car into a
crowd; fifty-eight killed in largest mass shooting in U.S. history in Las Vegas; start of the #MeToo
movement, to expose and stop sexual harassment and assault

2018
(through
March)

Nikolas Cruz, expelled student with history of emotional and behavioral disorders, kills seventeen
at high school in Parkland, Florida; students organize school walkouts and marches for gun
control across the United States

Important, terrifying, thrilling, and shocking events happen every year,
but the years from 2012 through 2018 seem like the closest we’ve come to the
intensity of the stretch from 1968 to 1972. And if you are not convinced that
the last few years are extraordinary by objective measures, then just add in the
amplifying power of social media. Not since the Vietnam War and the civil
rights struggles of the 1960s have so many Americans been exposed to a
seemingly endless stream of videos showing innocent people—mostly people
of color—being beaten, killed, or deported by armed representatives of the
state. Today’s college students have lived through extraordinary times, and, as
a result, many of them have developed an extraordinary passion for social

justice. That passion, which drives some of the changes we are seeing on
college campuses in recent years, is our sixth explanatory thread.
This chapter is about social justice. We will explore the meaning of this
term and embrace one version of it while criticizing another. The term is a
lightning rod in the left-right culture war, so this is a good time for us to lay
our cards on the table, politically speaking: Greg identifies as a liberal with
some sympathy for libertarian perspectives. Before FIRE, he worked for an
environmental justice group; he worked for an organization that advocates
for refugee rights and protections in Central Europe; and he interned at the
ACLU of Northern California. Jon considers himself a centrist who sides with
the Democratic Party on the great majority of issues, but who has learned a
lot from the writings of conservative intellectuals, from Edmund Burke
through Thomas Sowell. Neither of us has ever voted for a Republican for
Congress or the presidency. Both of us share most of the desired ends of
social justice activism, including full racial equality, an end to sexual
harassment and assault, comprehensive gun control, and responsible
stewardship of the environment. We both believe that the way social justice is
currently being conceptualized and pursued on campus is causing a variety of
problems and engendering resistance and resentment for reasons that some
of its advocates don’t seem to recognize. In this chapter, we describe some of
these conceptualizations. We also suggest a way to think about social justice
that makes it more likely to be achieved and that harmonizes it with the
traditional purpose of the university: the pursuit of truth.
What exactly is “social justice”? There is no widely shared definition.
We’ll try to draw out its meaning by starting with “justice” and then showing
in what ways “social justice” differs, conceptually, and in what ways it is the
same.

Intuitive Justice
Justice is arguably the most important moral concept in the history of
Western philosophy. From Plato’s Republic through John Rawls’s A Theory of
Justice, philosophers have tried to propose rules and principles that would
underlie a fair or “just” society. Rather than review that history here in order

to derive a philosophical definition of justice, we’ll take a shortcut and tell you
about two major areas of psychological research that, when combined, give us
a working definition of people’s everyday, ordinary, or “intuitive” notions of
justice. Intuitive justice is the combination of distributive justice (the
perception that people are getting what is deserved) and procedural justice
(the perception that the process by which things are distributed and rules are
enforced is fair and trustworthy). We’ll show where claims about social justice
fit well with intuitive justice and where they don’t.

DISTRIBUTIVE JUSTICE

Sharing plays a big role in the moral lives of children, and they get a lot of
practice dividing things equally. If there are four kids and twelve jelly beans,
each kid should get three. Obviously. But what do kids do when the jelly
beans are a reward for cleaning up the classroom, and one kid did most of the
work while another kid did nothing? Even toddlers seem to recognize the
importance of proportionality. In one experiment, two-year-olds showed
signs of being surprised when two people were rewarded equally if only one
of them did any work.6 By the age of six, kids show a clear preference for
rewarding the hard worker in a group, even if equal pay is an option.7 At
young ages, kids have trouble following this intuition when it means that they
themselves get less reward, but by adolescence, they are much better at
applying proportionality to themselves.8 Developmental psychologists
Christina Starmans, Mark Sheskin, and Paul Bloom reviewed the research on
fairness in children and concluded that “humans naturally favour fair
distributions, not equal ones,” and “when fairness and equality clash, people
prefer fair inequality over unfair equality.”9
To be clear, sometimes distributive justice calls for equality. For example,
Americans seem to have a common intuition that money inherited from a
deceased parent should be divided equally among siblings, rather than trying
to assess who did more for the parent or who needs the money more. And
sometimes distributive justice calls for inequality; for example, when
attending to need, particularly within a family or group that has some
communal feeling and that thinks it fair and proper to route resources to
whoever needs them most. But as the review by Starmans, Sheskin, and

Bloom indicates, proportionality or merit is the most common and preferred
principle children and adults use for allocating rewards outside a family.
Proportionality is the heart of “equity theory,” the major theory of
distributive justice in social psychology.10 Its core assertion is that when the
ratio of outcomes to inputs is equal for all participants, people perceive that to
be equitable, or fair.11 We can illustrate the theory with a simple equation,
shown in Figure 11.1.

FIGURE 11.1. Equity Theory. People keep close track of the ratio of everyone’s

outcomes to their inputs. When the ratios are equal, people perceive that things are
fair.

The consistent finding in equity theory research is that in most relationships,
people keep close track of how much reward each person is reaping (their
outcomes, such as pay and perks) in proportion to how much they are
contributing (their inputs, such as hours worked and the skills or credentials
they bring). They do this more in work relationships and less in intimate
relationships, but even in marriages, people are not oblivious to these ratios,
and because of the power of self-serving biases, they often have a sense that
they are doing more than their “fair share” of some or all tasks.12 When
everyone perceives that all the proportions are equal, then everyone perceives
that things are fair, and harmony is far more likely. When people believe that
someone else’s ratio is too high, they are likely to feel resentful toward that
person, whose rewards are disproportionate to their contributions. They may
also feel resentment toward the boss, company, or system that allows such
inequities to persist. People are not just being greedy. An early study testing
equity theory found that when people were led to believe that they were being
overpaid for a job, they worked harder in order to deserve the pay—to get
their ratio back into line.13

PROCEDURAL JUSTICE

Intuitive justice is not just about how much each person gets. It’s also about
the process by which decisions about distributions (and other matters) are
made. The social psychologist Tom Tyler is one of the pioneers of research on
“procedural justice.”14 His central finding is that people are much more
willing to accept a decision or action, even one that goes against themselves,
when they perceive that the process that led to the decision was fair.
There are two basic concerns that people bring to their judgments of
procedural justice. The first is how the decision is being made. This includes
whether the decision-makers are doing their best to be objective and neutral
and are therefore trustworthy, or whether they have conflicts of interest,
prejudices, or other factors that lead them to be biased in favor of a particular
person or outcome. It also includes transparency—is it clear to all how the
process works? The second basic concern is how a person is being treated
along the way, which means primarily: Are people being treated with dignity,
and do they have a voice—do they get to fully state their case, and are they
taken seriously when they do?
Tyler’s findings are especially important for understanding how people
respond to the police. When people perceive that the police are following fair
procedures and treating them and people like them with dignity, they are
much more willing to support the police, help them to fight crime, and even
accept occasionally being stopped and frisked by the police, whom they see as
working to keep their neighborhood safe. But if people think that the way the
police select people to frisk is racially biased and that people like them are
treated disrespectfully, with hostility, or, even worse, with violence, they will
understandably be angry and will see the police as the enemy. In a study
published in 2002, Tyler and psychologist Yuen Huo found that white and
nonwhite residents of two California cities had similar ideas about what
procedural justice entails, but their experiences gave them very different
perceptions of how the police treated people. It was this difference that
explained racial differences in attitudes toward the police.15
Combining the two forms of justice, we can say this: Intuitive justice
involves perceptions of distributive justice (as given by equity theory) and
procedural justice. If you want to motivate people to support a new policy or
join a movement in the name of justice, you need to activate in them a clear

perception, or intuition, that someone didn’t get what he or she deserved
(distributive injustice) or that someone was a victim of an unfair process
(procedural injustice). If you can’t elicit at least one of those feelings, then
people are much more likely to be content with the status quo, even if it is one
in which some people or groups end up with more resources or more status
than others.16

Proportional-Procedural Social Justice
Some conservatives and libertarians have argued that “social justice” is a
useless term—there is only justice, and tacking on the word “social” adds
nothing.17 We don’t agree. We think there are two forms of social justice
identifiable in modern political debates across the Western world, one of
which is a subset of intuitive justice and one of which is not.
Here’s a definition of social justice that accords with intuitive notions of
justice, from the National Association of Social Workers: “Social justice is the
view that everyone deserves equal economic, political and social rights and
opportunities. Social workers aim to open the doors of access and
opportunity for everyone, particularly those in greatest need.”18 Most
Americans would agree that everyone should have equal rights and
opportunities and that doors should be open for everyone.19 Much of the leftright divide on social policy involves how far the government should go to
equalize opportunity for children who are born into unequal circumstances
(and whether it is the federal government, state governments, or local
governments that should be responsible for that equalization).
Using that definition of social justice, we’ll define proportional-procedural
social justice as the effort to find and fix cases where distributive or procedural
justice is denied to people because they were born into poverty or belong to a
socially disadvantaged category. Some of these cases are extremely obvious.
The Jim Crow laws of the American South before 1965 were shockingly
explicit violations of procedural justice: racist police, judges, and legislatures
cruelly disregarded the dignity of black Americans and brutally violated their
rights. These violations of procedural justice led directly to egregious

violations of distributive justice in almost every area of life, including very
unequal public expenditures on separate and vastly unequal schools.
The civil rights campaign was a long struggle for proportional-procedural
social justice. Not everyone could see the injustice early on, and many white
people were motivated to not see it.20 This is why common-humanity identity
politics—which emphasizes an overarching common humanity while calling
attention to cases in which people are denied dignity and rights—was
ultimately so effective. It did not try to force white Americans to accept a new
conception of justice; it tried to help white Americans to see that their
country was violating its own conceptions of justice, which had been so nobly
expressed by the Founding Fathers but so imperfectly realized.
In our account, proportional-procedural social justice falls entirely within
the larger domain of intuitive justice. That doesn’t mean we should discard
the term “social justice.” Some injustices based on race, gender, or other
factors (and their intersections) are obvious, but others are subtle, and people
who do not experience them can be unaware of them (as Kimberlé Crenshaw
noted).21 It is useful to have specialists within the domain of justice research
who focus on this subset of injustices. Furthermore, when such injustices are
pointed out, members of the majority group are often motivated to ignore or
deny them.22 It is among the most important requirements of a democratic
society that it provide a way for people and groups to make new claims about
justice. An open democratic society considers such claims, debates them, and
then acts on claims that combine compelling arguments with effective
political pressure. If the outcome is new laws that are supported by widely
shared new norms, as happened in the civil rights struggle of the 1960s, that’s
pretty much the definition of moral and social progress in a democracy.
To take just one example of a subtle injustice: Suppose there’s a high
school that is composed of 80% white students and 20% black students. The
student committee planning the senior prom must decide what songs to play,
and at this school, musical tastes tend to vary by race. The committee takes a
vote on how to proceed, and the winning plan is to let students nominate a
long list of songs, each of which will then be voted on by the entire student
body. Democracy is all about voting, right? And the process itself was decided
on democratically, so we have procedural fairness, right?
Harvard legal scholar Lani Guinier explored cases like this in her 1994
book, The Tyranny of the Majority.23 She pointed out that seemingly fair

processes can sometimes lead to a group that is in the minority getting
entirely shut out at the end of the process. In the high school example above,
it’s quite possible that 100% of the songs chosen would be those nominated by
the white students. If that example seems trivial to you, just imagine that
you’re choosing state legislators instead of songs. Guinier suggested some
alternative ways that communities could run elections and divide electoral
power, ways that would not exclude or disadvantage minorities.
Guinier’s ideas elicited an angry reaction from some politicians on the
right, particularly when she suggested methods that would change the basic
system of “one person, one vote per seat.” She was called a “quota queen” in
The Wall Street Journal.24 The controversy surrounding her ideas derailed her
nomination to become Bill Clinton’s assistant attorney general for civil
rights.25 But the principle she was elaborating is sound, even if her preferred
methods are open to debate. This principle—the need for democracies to
protect the rights of minorities—was one of the reasons that the U.S.
Constitution’s first ten amendments (the Bill of Rights) were added so
quickly. (You don’t need a Bill of Rights to protect the rights of the majority
in a democracy, because the vote already does that.)
When social justice is about searching for and ending violations of human
or civil rights, particularly when those violations are related to membership in
social identity groups, then it is about removing obstacles and creating
equality of opportunity. It is exactly what those social workers called for when
they defined social justice as the quest to “open the doors of access and
opportunity for everyone, particularly those in greatest need.” Proportionalprocedural social justice is justice, and justice is never the enemy of truth.
Justice requires truth and honesty, and justice is entirely compatible with the
purpose, values, and daily life of a university. But what happens when social
justice activists focus on a desired end-state and pursue that goal in ways that
violate either distributive or procedural justice?

Equal-Outcomes Social Justice
When Jon taught at the University of Virginia (UVA), he sometimes hired
members of the UVA men’s crew team to do yard work for him. Each fall and

spring, young men on the team put flyers in all faculty mailboxes, advertising
their “rent-a-rower” service. At least, Jon thought he was hiring members of
the UVA men’s crew team. But after talking to the rowers, he learned that
there is no such thing as the UVA men’s crew team. There is only the Virginia
Rowing Association. The men who row for the association are all students at
the University of Virginia, but the university does not provide funding for
their sport. They must each pay more than a thousand dollars a year to belong
to the association, and they are also required to participate in the rent-arower program in order to raise money for their boats, coaching staff, travel
to races, and other expenses. They share a boathouse on the Rivanna
Reservoir with the UVA Women’s Rowing Team—for which all expenses,
including travel, coaching staff, and snacks at the boathouse, are fully funded
by the university.
Why are UVA students who want to row treated so differently based on
their gender? Because the implementation of Title IX was changed over the
years. From its original goal of providing equal access to educational
opportunities for women and men, the program morphed into one that
pushes universities to obtain equal outcomes regardless of inputs.
On its face, Title IX is eminently fair and reasonable. It prohibits colleges
that accept federal funds from discriminating against women with respect to
“educational opportunity.” In 1979, the Carter administration used an equalopportunity interpretation of Title IX when applying it to college sports:
scholarships were to be “available on a substantially proportional basis to the
number of male and female participants in the institution’s athletic program.”
Furthermore, “the governing principle in this area is that the athletic interests
and abilities of male and female students must be equally effectively
accommodated.”26 Outcomes (such as scholarships and slots on teams) had to
be proportional to inputs (such as interest in participating). Men and women
should find it equally easy to obtain a sports-related scholarship or a slot on a
team.
But in 1996, the Clinton administration began to put pressure on schools
to achieve equal outcomes.27 The U.S. Department of Education’s Office for
Civil Rights issued a “Dear Colleague” letter (a general directive regarding
Title IX compliance) to all schools receiving federal funding,28 clarifying how
schools could comply with Title IX’s relevant obligations.29 One compliance
option was for schools to show that their sports programs (taken all together)

mirrored the gender balance of the overall student body. The letter also
offered two other ways to comply,30 but in practice, if schools chose those
options, they were in a compliance gray zone that invited monitoring and
possible investigation by the Office for Civil Rights, so hardly any schools did.
Furthermore, with the press and various organizations watching closely,
schools would be judged by their overall numbers anyway.31 Schools therefore
began to strive for equal outcomes. Some schools cut men’s sports teams as
part of their effort to improve their gender balance, sometimes citing Title IX
as the reason for the cuts.32 More commonly, schools added women’s teams,
which is more consistent with the original spirit of Title IX, but that, too,
sometimes created unequal treatment. That’s what happened at UVA: before
1994, men’s and women’s crew had both been club sports—there was no
varsity crew program. In its efforts to comply with Title IX, UVA elevated
women’s crew to a varsity sport, but did not do the same for the men’s team.
Of course, if male and female students had equal levels of interest in
participating in sports, then both versions of social justice would converge on
the desired end-state of equal outcomes. Give everyone the same access to
sports, and your teams will mirror the overall population. Note that “equal
outcomes” in these cases doesn’t necessarily mean fifty-fifty; it means
representative of the overall student body, which is usually mostly female.
“Equal outcomes” means that of all the students who participate in sports, the
ratio of men to women will be the same as the ratio of men to women in the
student body as a whole. More generally, equal-outcomes social justice
activists seem to believe that all institutions and occupations should mirror
the overall U.S. population: 50% female, roughly 15% African American, 15%
Latino, and so on. Any departure from those numbers means that a group is
“underrepresented,” and underrepresentation is often taken to be direct
evidence of systemic bias or injustice.
Yet men and women differ in their interests on many things, including
sports. A review of the literature led by psychologist Robert Deaner, of Grand
Valley State University (Michigan), finds that boys and men show greater
interest in playing sports and watching sports than do girls and women, and
this is true across cultures, eras, and age groups, whether one uses interview
methods or observations of play behavior.33 Of course, those differences could
just reflect a pervasive cross-cultural tendency to steer girls away from sports
and deprive them of opportunities, but if that were true—if girls were being

discouraged from doing what they wanted to do—then sex differences would
be smaller in informal settings, such as when kids are playing in a park,
compared with school settings. But in fact, the opposite is true. The gender
difference is relatively small in school—girls constitute about 42% of the
athletes on high school teams—but it is much larger when adolescents are
observed in public parks or when they are surveyed about how they use their
leisure time.34 The available research suggests that girls and women are often
as interested as boys and men in getting physical exercise, but not in playing
team sports.35
If this is true—if boys and men are more interested, on average, in playing
team sports—then universities cannot achieve the equal-outcome target just
by offering equal opportunity. They must work harder to recruit women and,
perhaps, discourage men. In fact, in order to meet their equal-outcomes
targets, many universities are resorting to ethically questionable techniques,
known collectively as “roster management,” which sometimes border on
fraud. As reported in a 2011 New York Times exposé,36 it is very common for
schools to pad the rosters of their women’s teams with women who never
come to practice and sometimes don’t even know they are signed up. Some
schools invite men to practice with the women and then count the men on
the women’s team roster. The exposé gives the impression that U.S.
universities are sneaky and dishonest institutions, but this is the predictable
response of a bureaucracy, as we described in the previous chapter. When the
federal government pressures universities to achieve equal outcomes in the
face of unequal inputs, administrators do what they can to protect the
institution. That might require them to violate procedural justice, distributive
justice, and honesty along the way.
You can see the basic problem if you plug the terms into equity theory, as
we do in Figure 11.2. At the University of Virginia, men who want to row
must contribute much more than women ($1,000 or more per year, plus
renting themselves out for labor). Yet their outcomes are less than those
received by women (who have a much larger budget). The ratios are far from
equal.

FIGURE 11.2. When male rowers must raise their own money, their ratio of outcomes

to inputs is much lower than the ratio for female rowers, who are supported by the
university.

Of course, if we look at UVA sports as a whole, the picture looks different.
The men’s football program is gigantic and costly, and there is no women’s
football team. The university as a whole is still spending far more money on
men’s sports than on women’s sports, and if you endorse equal-outcomes
social justice, you’ll say that the unequal treatment of rowers is necessary in
order to compensate for the money spent on male athletes elsewhere.
But when you leave campus, that argument is not going to convince many
people; it’s very hard to make it intuitively compelling by linking it to equity
theory or procedural fairness. Most people want individuals to be treated well,
and they recoil from cases where individuals are treated unfairly in order to
bring about some kind of group-level equality. This is why quotas generally
produce such strong backlash: they mandate a violation of procedural justice
(people are treated differently based on their race, sex, or some other factor)
and distributive justice (rewards are not proportional to inputs) to achieve a
specific end-state of equal outcomes.
To be clear: Departures from equality sometimes do indicate that some
kind of bias or injustice is operating. Some institutions or companies make it
harder for members of one group to succeed, as can be seen in recent books
and articles about the toxic “bro culture” of Silicon Valley,37 which violates
the dignity and rights of women (procedural injustice) while denying them
the status, promotions, and pay that they deserve based on the quality of their
work (distributive injustice). When you see a situation in which some groups
are underrepresented, it is an invitation to investigate and find out whether
there are obstacles, a hostile climate, or systemic factors that have a disparate
impact on members of those groups. But how can you know whether unequal
outcomes truly reveal a violation of justice?

Correlation Does Not Imply Causation
All social scientists know that correlation does not imply causation. If A and
B seem to be linked—that is, they change together over time or are found
together in a population at levels higher than chance would predict—then it is
certainly possible that A caused B. But it’s also possible that B caused A
(reverse causation) or that a third variable, C, caused both A and B and there
is no direct relationship between A and B. (It’s also possible, as we described
in chapter 7, that it’s a “spurious correlation”—that there is no link between A
and B and the correlation is a coincidence.)
For example, a study of 7,500 German households found that people who
had sex more than four times a week earned 3.2% more than people who had
sex only once a week. Sexual frequency and paycheck are correlated (slightly),
but why? What’s the causal path? An article about the study that was
published at Gawker.com featured this headline: MORE BUCK FOR YOUR BANG:
PEOPLE WHO HAVE MORE SEX MAKE THE MOST MONEY.38 The headline suggested
that A (sex) causes B (money), which is surely the best causal path to choose if
your goal is to entice people to click on your article. But any social scientist
presented with that correlation would instantly wonder about reverse
causation (does having more money cause people to have more sex?) and
would then move on to a third-variable explanation, which in this case seems
to be the correct one.39 The Gawker story itself noted that people who are
more extraverted have more sex and also make more money. In this case, a
third variable, C (extraversion, or high sociability) may cause both A (more
sex) and B (more money).
Social scientists analyze correlations like this constantly (to the great
annoyance of friends and family). They are self-appointed conversation
referees, throwing a yellow penalty flag when anyone tries to interpret a
correlation as evidence of causation. But a funny thing has been happening in
recent years on campus. Nowadays, when someone points to an outcome gap
and makes the claim (implicitly or explicitly) that the gap itself is evidence of
systemic injustice, social scientists often just nod along with everyone else in
the room.
An outcome gap is a kind of correlation. But if someone quotes from a
study or otherwise asserts that one group is overrepresented in a job category

or that there is a gap in pay, often the implication is that being a member of
one group caused members of that group to be preferentially hired or to be
paid more. It would indeed be evidence of improper or illegal discrimination
if there were no other reason for the outcome gap aside from group
membership. For example, if someone notes that computer programmers at
elite tech firms are mostly male, often the implication is that being male
caused those employees to be more likely to be hired or promoted, which is
obviously unjust if there are no other differences between male and female
computer programmers.
But are there other differences? Are there other causal pathways? If you
suggest an alternative explanation for the gap, others may take you to be
saying that the problem is not as severe as the speaker believes it is—and if
anyone in the room is displeased by that suggestion, then you may be accused
of committing a microaggression (specifically a “micro-invalidation”40). If
your alternative hypothesis includes the speculation that there could be
differences in some underlying factor, some input that is relevant to the
outcome (for example, a sex difference in how much men or women enjoy
sports or computer programming),41 then you may be violating a serious
taboo.
In an article titled “The Psychology of the Unthinkable,” social
psychologist Philip Tetlock calls this the use of “forbidden base rates.”42 But if
this kind of thinking is forbidden and social scientists don’t work as hard to
challenge the theories that are politically favored, then “institutionalized
disconfirmation,” the process of challenging and testing ideas, breaks down.
If professors and students are hesitant to raise alternative explanations for
outcome gaps, then theories about those gaps may harden into orthodoxy.
Ideas may be accepted not because they are true but because the politically
dominant group wants them to be true in order to promote its preferred
narrative and preferred set of remedies.43 At that point, backed by the passion
and certainty of activists, flawed academic theories may get carried out of the
academy and be applied in high schools, corporations, and other
organizations. Unfortunately, when reformers try to intervene in complex
institutions using theories that are based on a flawed or incomplete
understanding of the causal forces at work, their reform efforts are unlikely to
do any good—and might even make things worse.

• • • • •
College students today are living in an extraordinary time, and many have
developed an extraordinary passion for social justice. They are identifying
and challenging injustices that have been well documented and
unsuccessfully addressed for too long. In the 1960s, students fought for many
causes that, from the vantage point of today, were clearly noble causes,
including ending the Vietnam War, extending full civil rights to African
Americans and others, and protecting the natural environment. Students
today are fighting for many causes that we believe are noble, too, including
ending racial injustices in the legal system and in encounters with the police;
providing equal educational and other opportunities for everyone, regardless
of circumstances at birth; and extinguishing cultural habits that encourage or
enable sexual harassment and gender inequalities. On these and many other
issues, we think student protesters are on the “right side of history,” and we
support their goals. But if activists embrace the equal-outcomes form of social
justice—if they interpret all deviations from population norms as evidence of
systemic bias—then they will get drawn into endless and counterproductive
campaigns, even against people who share their goals. Along the way, they
will reinforce the bad mental habits that we have described throughout the
book.
Instead, we urge students to treat deviations from population norms as
invitations to investigate further. Is the deviation present in the pipeline or
applicant pool for the job? If so, then look at the beginning of the pipeline
more than at the end of it, and be willing to entertain the possibility that
people of different genders and people from different cultures may have
different preferences. Focus as much on procedural justice as on distributive:
Are people in all identity groups treated with equal dignity? The answer to
that question might be no in an organization that has achieved statistical
equality, and it might be yes in an organization in which some groups are
underrepresented. Be clear about what end states matter and why. As long as
activists keep their eyes on the two components of intuitive justice that all of
us carry in our minds—distributive and procedural—they will apply their
efforts where they are likely to do the most good, and they will win more
widespread support along the way.

In Sum
Political events in the years from 2012 to 2018 have been as
emotionally powerful as any since the late 1960s. Today’s college
students and student protesters are responding to these events with a
powerful commitment to social justice activism. This is our sixth and
final explanatory thread.
People’s ordinary, everyday, intuitive notions of justice include two
major types: distributive justice (the perception that people are getting
what is deserved) and procedural justice (the perception that the
process by which things are distributed and rules are enforced is fair
and trustworthy).
The most common way that people think about distributive justice is
captured by equity theory, which states that things are perceived to be
fair when the ratio of outcomes to inputs is equal for all participants.
Procedural justice is about how decisions are being made, and is also
about how people are treated along the way, as procedures unfold.
Social justice is a central concept in campus life today, and it takes a
variety of forms. When social justice efforts are fully consistent with
both distributive and procedural justice, we call it proportionalprocedural social justice. Such efforts generally aim to remove barriers
to equality of opportunity and also to ensure that everyone is treated
with dignity. But when social justice efforts aim to achieve equality of
outcomes by group, and when social justice activists are willing to
violate distributive or procedural fairness for some individuals along
the way, these efforts violate many people’s sense of intuitive justice.
We call this equal-outcomes social justice.
Correlation does not imply causation. Yet in many discussions in
universities these days, the correlation of a demographic trait or
identity group membership with an outcome gap is taken as evidence
that discrimination (structural or individual) caused the outcome gap.
Sometimes it did, sometimes it didn’t, but if people can’t raise
alternative possible causal explanations without eliciting negative
consequences, then the community is unlikely to arrive at an accurate

understanding of the problem. And without understanding the true
nature of a problem, there is little chance of solving it.
This concludes Part III of this book. In these six chapters, we showed how
the new culture of safetyism that we described in Part I and the dramatic
events that we described in Part II are the result of many intersecting trends
and explanatory threads that all came together in recent years. These threads
reach back into history, down into childhood, and out into national politics.
Having offered this explanation of how we got here, we now turn to the
question of where to go next.

PART IV

Wising Up

CHAPTER 12

Wiser Kids

S

omething is going badly wrong for American teenagers, as we can see
in the statistics on depression, anxiety, and suicide. Something is going
very wrong on many college campuses, as we can see in the growth of
call-out culture, in the rise in efforts to disinvite or shout down visiting
speakers, and in changing norms about speech,1 including a recent tendency
to evaluate speech in terms of safety and danger. This new culture of
safetyism and vindictive protectiveness is bad for students and bad for
universities. What can we do to change course?
In the next chapter, we’ll offer suggestions for improving universities, but
first we must look at childhood. In chapters 8 and 9, we showed that there has
been a shift, particularly in middle-class and wealthier families, to more
intensive and overprotective parenting, and that this is, in part, a response to
unrealistic fears of abduction, and to somewhat more realistic fears about
admission to prestigious universities. We showed that the decline of free play
may be part of the reason for children’s increased fragility. In this chapter, we
draw on earlier chapters to offer advice for raising children who are wiser,
stronger, and antifragile; children who will thrive as they become more
independent in college and beyond.
We are mindful that pathways through childhood vary by nation, decade,
social class, and other factors. The suggestions we make here are tailored for
American parents who use the “concerted cultivation” style of parenting that
we described in chapter 8. That’s the style that sociologist Annette Lareau
found being used by middle-class parents of all races, and that political
scientist Robert Putnam said had become the norm by the 1990s for families
in the middle class and above. This time-intensive, labor-intensive strategy

involves overprotecting, overscheduling, and overparenting children in hopes
of giving them an edge in a competitive society that has forgotten the
importance of play and the value of unsupervised experience.
But even though our advice grows out of our analysis of current trends in
the United States, we expect that much of it will be relevant to parents and
educators in other countries. South Korean parents, for example, are second
to none in their fears about college admissions and their willingness to
replace nearly all of their children’s free play time with expensive and
exhausting test preparation classes.2 To take another example, British schools
can hold their own in any competition with Americans to put safety ahead of
common sense. Just as we were finishing this book, the head teacher of an
elementary school in East London issued a rule that children must not even
touch recently fallen snow, because touching could lead to snowballs. “The
problem is it only takes one student, one piece of grit, one stone in a snowball
in an eye with an injury and we change our view,” he explained.3 That is the
epitome of safetyism: If we can prevent one child from getting hurt, we should
deprive all children of slightly risky play.
We are also mindful that children are “complex adaptive systems,” as we
described in chapter 1. They are not simple machines. We have shown many
examples in this book of well-intended reforms that backfired, beginning with
our example of banning peanuts to protect kids from peanut allergies. We
therefore offer these suggestions with the caveat that any effort to change one
part of children’s lives can produce unexpected effects in some other part.
More research is needed, but we think these suggestions are likely to be
helpful. We hope to start a conversation among parents, educators, and
researchers, and we’ll track that conversation on our website,
TheCoddling.com.
We organize our advice under six general principles. The first three are
the opposites of the Great Untruths.

1. Prepare the Child for the Road, Not the Road for
the Child

The first of the three epigraphs that we used at the beginning of this book
summarizes the book’s most important single piece of advice: Prepare the
child for the road, not the road for the child. That is eternally good advice, but
it became even better once the internet came along and part of the road
became virtual. It was foolish to think one could clear the road for one’s child
before the internet. Now it is delusional. To return to the example of peanut
allergies: kids need to develop a normal immune response, rather than an
allergic response, to the everyday irritations and provocations of life,
including life on the internet.
You cannot teach antifragility directly, but you can give your children the
gift of experience—the thousands of experiences they need to become
resilient, autonomous adults. The gift begins with the recognition that kids
need some unstructured, unsupervised time in order to learn how to judge
risks for themselves and practice dealing with things like frustration,
boredom, and interpersonal conflict. The most important thing they can do
with that time is to play, especially in free play, outdoors, with other kids. In
some situations, there may need to be an adult nearby for children’s physical
safety, but that adult should not intervene in general disputes and arguments.4
In that spirit, here are some specific suggestions for parents, teachers, and
all who care for children:
A. Assume that your kids are more capable this month than they were last
month. Each month, ask them what tasks or challenges they think
they can do on their own—such as walking to a store a few blocks
away, making their own breakfast, or starting a dog-walking business.
Resist the urge to jump in and help them when they’re struggling to
do things and seem to be doing them the wrong way. Trial and error
is a slower but usually better teacher than direct instruction.
B. Let your kids take more small risks, and let them learn from getting
some bumps and bruises. Children need opportunities to “dose
themselves” with risk, as Peter Gray noted. Jon’s kids love the
“junkyard playground”5 on Governor’s Island, in New York City. It
lets children play with construction materials, including scrap lumber,
hammers, and nails (after the parents sign a long liability waiver). On
their first visit, Jon watched from outside the fence as two ten-year-

old boys pounded nails into lumber. One of the boys accidentally hit
his thumb with the hammer. The boy winced, shook his hand out,
and went right back to pounding nails. This happened twice and did
not deter the boy. He learned how to hammer nails.
C. Learn about Lenore Skenazy’s Free-Range Kids movement, and
incorporate her lessons into your family’s life. Remember the firstgrade readiness checklist from 1979 that asked whether your six-yearold can “travel alone in the neighborhood (four to eight blocks) to
store, school, playground, or to a friend’s home?” Start letting your
kids walk places and play outside as soon as you think they are able.
Send them out with siblings or friends. Tell them it’s OK to talk to
strangers and ask for help or directions, just never go off with a
stranger. Remember that the crime rate is back down to where it was
in the early 1960s.
D. Visit LetGrow.org, the website for an organization that Skenazy
cofounded with Jon, Peter Gray, and investor/philanthropist Daniel
Shuchman.6 The site will keep you up to date on research, news, and
ideas for giving your kids a childhood that will lead to resilience. One
of our simplest ideas: Print out a “Let Grow License” like the one
below,7 then send your kids out into your neighborhood with less fear
that they will be detained by busybodies who might call 911.8 Learn
what the laws in your state require by typing “state laws” into the
site’s search box.
I AM A “LET GROW” KID!
Hi! My name is _______________
I am not lost or neglected. I have been taught how to cross the street. I
know never to go off with strangers . . . but I can talk to them. (Including
you!) The state allows parents to decide at what age their child can do
some things independently. Mine believe it is safe, healthy and fun for me
to explore my neighborhood. If you do not believe me, please call or text
them at the numbers below. If you still think it is inappropriate or illegal for
me to be on my own, please:
1. Read Adventures of Huckleberry Finn

2. Remember your own childhood! Were you under adult supervision at
every moment? Today’s crime rate is back to what it was in 1963, so
it’s safer to play outside NOW than when you were my age.
3. Visit the website LetGrow.org.
Parent’s Name _______________
Parent’s Signature _______________
Parent’s Phone _______________
Alternate Phone _______________

E. Encourage your children to walk or ride bicycles to and from school at
the earliest ages possible, consistent with local circumstances of
distance, traffic, and crime. Ask your school to provide a way for kids
to check in and check out, so parents can keep track of children who
travel to school independently without having to give them a
smartphone to track them directly.
F. Help your kids find a community of kids in the neighborhood who
come from families that share your commitment to avoid
overprotection. Find ways for kids to get together in nearby parks or
in specific backyards. You’ll need to work out boundaries and
guidelines with other parents to be sure that the kids are safe from
major physical risks, that they know to stick together and help one
another, and that they know what to do when someone gets hurt.
Kids are likely to develop more maturity and resilience in such groups
than in supervised playdates or adult-organized activities.
G. Send your children to an overnight summer camp in the woods for a
few weeks—without devices. “The old-fashioned generalist camps are
where we see the most impact in terms of letting children develop
their own interests,” Erika Christakis says, “where kids can make
choices about what they do and don’t do.”9 YMCA overnight summer
camps often fit this description, but even some narrower, interestdriven summer camps do, too—and many offer scholarships. The key,
according to Christakis, is for children to be free of adult “guidance”
or concerns about skill-building. Let them play and do things because

they are interested, while practicing the “art of association” that de
Tocqueville remarked on in 1835.
H. Encourage your children to engage in a lot of “productive
disagreement.” As psychologist Adam Grant notes, the most creative
people grew up in homes full of arguments, yet few parents today
teach their children how to argue productively; instead, “we stop
siblings from quarreling and we have our own arguments behind
closed doors.” But learning how to give and take criticism without
being hurt is an essential life skill. When serious thinkers respect
someone, they are willing to engage them in a thoughtful argument.
Grant offers the following four rules for productive disagreement:10
Frame it as a debate, rather than a conflict.
Argue as if you’re right, but listen as if you’re wrong (and be
willing to change your mind).
Make the most respectful interpretation of the other person’s
perspective.
Acknowledge where you agree with your critics and what you’ve
learned from them.

2. Your Worst Enemy Cannot Harm You as Much as
Your Own Thoughts, Unguarded
Children (like adults) are prone to emotional reasoning. They need to learn
cognitive and social skills that will temper emotional reasoning and guide
them to respond more productively to life’s provocations. Especially now that
the internet guarantees that they will have to deal with trash all along the road
of life, it is vital that they learn to notice and manage their emotional
reactions and choose how to respond.
The second epigraph at the start of this book came from Buddha: “Your
worst enemy cannot harm you as much as your own thoughts, unguarded.
But once mastered, no one can help you as much, not even your father or
your mother.” Our advice is based on this insight.

A. Teach children the basics of CBT. CBT stands for “cognitive behavioral
therapy,” but in many ways it’s really just “cognitive behavioral
techniques,” because the intellectual habits it teaches are good for
everyone. Parents can teach children the basics of CBT at any age,
starting with something as simple as getting in the habit of letting
children watch parents talk back to their own exaggerated thoughts. A
technique Greg learned involves practicing hearing his anxious and
doomsaying automatic thoughts as if they are being said in funny
voices, like Elmer Fudd’s or Daffy Duck’s. It may sound silly, but it
can quickly turn an anxious or upsetting moment into a humorous
one. Greg and his wife, Michelle, practice this with their two-year-old,
as a way of calming everyone down during moments of stress.
Dr. Robert Leahy, the director of The American Institute for
Cognitive Therapy,11 suggests that when children are upset and may
be subject to cognitive distortions, parents can walk their children
through the following exercise:
Let’s take this thought that you have and ask some questions about
it. Sometimes we have a thought about someone and we think we
are absolutely right. But then this way of thinking makes us upset
and makes us angry or sad. Thoughts are not always true. I might
be thinking it’s raining outside, but then I go outside and it’s not
raining. We have to find out what the facts are, don’t we?
Sometimes we look at things like we are looking through a dark lens
and everything seems dark. Let’s try putting on different glasses.12

Parents can get an accessible overview of CBT from reading Dr.
Leahy’s book The Worry Cure. Also, Freeing Your Child From
Anxiety, by Tamar Chansky,13 is recommended by the Beck
Institute,14 which is another great resource for cognitive behavioral
therapy. There are many books, blogs,15 curricula, and even cell phone
apps for practicing CBT. Two apps that are rated highly by the
Anxiety and Depression Association of America are CPT Coach (for
those who are in active treatment with a therapist)16 and
AnxietyCoach.17

B. Teach children mindfulness. According to Jon Kabat-Zinn, professor
of medicine emeritus at the University of Massachusetts Medical
School, “mindfulness” means “paying attention in a particular way: on
purpose, in the present moment, and nonjudgmentally.”18 Research
indicates that establishing a mindfulness practice reduces anxiety,
diminishes stress reactivity, enhances coping, benefits attention,
increases compassion (and self-compassion), and strengthens
emotion regulation. Researchers see improvements in children’s inschool behavior, test anxiety, perspective-taking, social skills,
empathy, and even grades.19 Children and teens who engage in
mindfulness practices are better able to calm themselves and be more
“present.”20 For more information and some easy mindfulness
exercises for parents and children, see The New York Times
“Mindfulness for Children” guide, by David Gelles,21 and CognitivelyBased Compassion Training from the Emory-Tibet Partnership.22

3. The Line Dividing Good and Evil Cuts Through the
Heart of Every Human Being
The third epigraph at the start of this book came from The Gulag Archipelago,
the memoir of Aleksandr Solzhenitsyn, a Russian dissident of the Soviet era.
In 1945, Solzhenitsyn criticized Joseph Stalin in private letters sent to a friend.
He was arrested and sentenced to hard labor in the network of gulags (prison
camps) spread out across Siberia, in which many inmates froze, starved, or
were beaten to death. Solzhenitsyn was eventually released and exiled. In one
moving passage, describing a time soon after his arrest, he is being marched
for days with a few other men. He reflects upon his own virtue, his “unselfish
dedication” to the motherland, when it occurs to him that he himself had
nearly joined the security service (the NKVD, which evolved into the KGB).
He realizes that he could just as easily have become the executioner, rather
than the condemned man marching off to his possible execution. He then
warns his readers to beware of the Untruth of Us Versus Them:

If only it were so simple! If only there were evil people somewhere
insidiously committing evil deeds, and it were necessary only to separate
them from the rest of us and destroy them. But the line dividing good and
evil cuts through the heart of every human being.23

How can we raise wiser children who will not fall prey to the Untruth of
Us Versus Them and the self-righteous call-out culture it breeds? And how
can teenagers and college students themselves create and foster a commonhumanity way of thinking?
A. Give people the benefit of the doubt. Use the “principle of charity.”
This is the principle in philosophy and rhetoric of making an effort to
interpret other people’s statements in their best or most reasonable
form, not in the worst or most offensive way possible. Parents can
model the principle of charity by using it in family discussions and
arguments.
B. Practice the virtue of “intellectual humility.” Intellectual humility is the
recognition that our reasoning is so flawed, so prone to bias, that we
can rarely be certain that we are right. For kids in middle or high
school, find the TED Talk titled “On Being Wrong.”24 The speaker,
Kathryn Schulz, begins with the question “What does it feel like to be
wrong?” She collects answers from the audience: “dreadful,” “thumbs
down,” “embarrassing.” Then she notes that her audience has actually
described what it feels like the moment they realize they are wrong.
Until that moment, the feeling of being wrong is indistinguishable
from the feeling of being right. We are all wrong about many things at
every moment, but until we know it, we are often quite certain that we
are right. Having people around us who are willing to disagree with us
is a gift. So when you realize you are wrong, admit that you are
wrong, and thank your critics for helping you see it.25
C. Look very carefully at how your school handles identity politics. Does it
look and sound like the common-humanity identity politics we
described in chapter 3? Or is it more like common-enemy identity
politics, which encourages kids to see one another not as individuals
but as exemplars of groups, some of which are good, some bad? If the
school is using a curriculum developed by an outside organization,

find out which one, and look closely at the website of that
organization to see whether they embrace a common-humanity or a
common-enemy approach. If you are concerned that the school is
leading students to embrace the Untruth of Us Versus Them, and you
are a parent, express your concerns to the principal. If you are a high
school student, see whether any of your peers have concerns about
this, too. Brainstorm ways to bring a common-humanity perspective
to your school.

4. Help Schools to Oppose the Great Untruths
Efforts made by parents have a greater chance of success if schools share
parents’ concerns about defeating the Great Untruths, and these efforts will
be undercut if schools adhere to the Great Untruths. If you are in a position
to influence policy at a school—as a teacher, as an administrator, or as a
parent—you can have an enormous impact. Here are a few suggestions for
educational changes related to the problems we covered in this book. We
begin with ideas for elementary schools:
A. Homework in the early grades should be minimal. In the early grades,
it’s always good to encourage kids to read with their parents and on
their own, but homework beyond that should not intrude on playtime
or family time. Other than encouraging reading, minimize or
eliminate all homework in kindergarten and first grade. In later
elementary grades, homework should be simple and brief. As Duke
University psychologist and homework expert Harris Cooper puts it:
In elementary school, short and simple homework can help
reinforce simple skills. Further, short and simple homework can help
younger students begin to learn time management, organizational
skills, and a sense of responsibility, and can help keep parents
informed of their child’s progress. But for elementary school
children, the expectation of big improvements in achievement from
long assignments is likely to be unmet.26

B. Give more recess with less supervision. Recess on school property
generally provides an ideal and physically safe setting for free play.
However, as we’ve noted, when adults are standing by to resolve
disputes or stop children from taking small risks, this may breed
moral dependency. To see an example of the positive effects that can
come about when kids are entrusted with much greater autonomy at
recess, search the internet for a video titled “No Rules School,”27 about
a New Zealand elementary school principal who gradually removed
adult supervision from recess so kids could have “risky, unmanaged
play.” Kids there climb trees, make up their own games, and play with
boards, scraps of wood, and junk. Kids get to calculate risks, take
chances, and experience real-world consequences. Of course, there
are (by intention) risks here. To implement this policy, much needs to
be worked out regarding physical safety and preventing bullying. But
if discussions about recess policies began with a screening of that
video, the conclusions reached would likely be more aligned with the
concept of antifragility. (In fact, the principal of the New Zealand
school reports that bullying has gone down since instituting no-rules
recess.) A simple way to give kids more unsupervised play time in a
physically safe setting is to create an after-school play club by keeping
the playground (or a gymnasium) open for a few hours after school
each day.28 Such free play, in a mixed-age setting, may be better for
kids than many structured after-school activities. (It is surely better
than sitting at home after school interacting with a screen.)
C. Discourage the use of the word “safe” or “safety” for anything other
than physical safety. One of Jon’s friends recently forwarded to him an
email that a third-grade teacher sent to parents about recess and
about children forming “clubs.” (Kids who played together at recess
were not allowing “nonmembers” to join in.) Reasonable minds can
disagree about the wisdom of compelling kids to be inclusive at
recess, but the last line of the email alarmed Jon: “We are thinking
about how everyone at recess can feel safe and included.” This is the
seed of safetyism. It is painful to feel excluded, and it is good for the
teacher to use kids’ exclusion as a basis for discussion to help kids
reflect on why inclusion is good. But the pain of occasional exclusion
doesn’t make kids unsafe. If we mandate inclusion in everything and

teach kids that exclusion puts them in danger—that being excluded
should make them feel unsafe—then we are making future
experiences of exclusion more painful and giving kids the expectation
that an act of exclusion warrants calling in an authority figure to make
the exclusion stop.
D. Have a “no devices” policy. Some parents will want to give their kids
smartphones to track them when they begin traveling to school with
no adult, or to help with the complex logistics of pickup or afterschool activities. The school policy should be that smartphones must
be left in a locker or in some other way kept out of easy reach during
the school day.29
Here are some ideas for middle schools and high schools:
E. Protect or expand middle school recess. In middle school the focus
becomes more academic, so some middle schools have done away
with recess. But the American Academy of Pediatrics notes in a 2013
statement that “cognitive processing and academic performance
depend on regular breaks from concentrated classroom work. This
applies equally to adolescents and to younger children.”30
F. Cultivate the intellectual virtues. The intellectual virtues are the
qualities necessary to be a critical thinker and an effective learner.
They include curiosity, open-mindedness, and intellectual humility.
The process of developing intellectual virtues must begin long before
arriving on a university campus. The Intellectual Virtues Academy, a
charter middle school in Long Beach, California, was created in 2013
to do just that.31 The school operates on a foundation of three core
values that are antithetical to the Untruth of Emotional Reasoning: a
culture of thinking (ask questions, seek understanding, and practice
the habits of good thinking), self-knowledge (practice ongoing selfreflection and self-awareness), and openness and respect (strive for a
strong sense of community marked by collaboration, empowerment,
and intentional openness and respect for the thinking of others; this is
also an antidote to the Untruth of Us Versus Them). You can learn
more about cultivating the intellectual virtues and about how to
incorporate them in schools at intellectualvirtues.org and in the

writings of Jason Baehr, a professor of philosophy at Loyola
Marymount University and one of the founders of the Intellectual
Virtues Academy.32
G. Teach debate and offer debate club. A great way for students to learn
the skills of civil disagreement is by participating in structured, formal
debates. It is especially important that students practice arguing for
positions that oppose their own views. All students would benefit
from learning debating techniques and participating in formal
debates. In addition to the obvious benefits of learning how to make a
well-supported case, debate helps students distinguish between a
critique of ideas and a personal attack. The International Debate
Education Association has suggestions for how to create a debate
club.33 Students (and their parents and teachers) can also watch
Intelligence Squared debates to see skilled debaters in action.34
H. Assign readings and coursework that promote reasoned discussion. A
schoolwide commitment to debate can be supplemented by readings
and coursework that teach the habits of good thinking. We suggest
that schools offer media literacy classes that teach students the
difference between evidence and opinion, and how to evaluate the
legitimacy of sources. In addition, Heterodox Academy (an
association of professors that Jon co-founded to promote viewpoint
diversity) has produced a free, illustrated PDF edition of chapter 2 of
John Stuart Mill’s classic work On Liberty.35 Mill’s book is perhaps the
most compelling argument ever made for why we need to interact
with people who see things differently from ourselves in order to find
the truth. Heterodox Academy has also created OpenMind, a free
interactive program that rapidly teaches basic social and moral
psychology as a prelude to learning conversational skills for bridging
divides.36 Another suggestion is Annie Duke’s 2018 book, Thinking in
Bets: Making Smarter Decisions When You Don’t Have All the Facts.
Duke draws from her experience as a successful professional poker
player and decision-strategy consultant. She delineates practices that
can help students see why the habits of good thinking require
rejecting the Untruth of Emotional Reasoning. By examining “tilt”
(the term poker players use to describe when someone is too
emotional to make good decisions), Duke makes it plain that we can’t

always trust our feelings. (Find more suggested resources at
TheCoddling.com.)

5. Limit and Refine Device Time
Left to their own devices, as it were, many children would spend most of their
free time staring into a screen. According to the nonprofit organization
Common Sense Media, teens spend on average about nine hours per day on
screens, and eight- to twelve-year-olds spend about six hours; that is in
addition to whatever they are doing on screens for school.37 A growing body
of research indicates that such heavy use is associated with bad social and
mental health outcomes. Because this topic is so complicated and the research
base for making recommendations is still small, we offer just three general
suggestions that we think will strike most parents and many teens as
reasonable. (We’ll say more on our website as more research comes in.)
A. Place clear limits on device time. Two hours a day seems to be a
reasonable maximum, as there does not appear to be evidence of
negative mental health effects at this level. For younger children,
consider banning the use of devices during the school week entirely,
in order to delay for as long as possible the incorporation of devicetime into daily routines.
B. Pay as much attention to what children are doing as you do to how
much time they spend doing it. In chapter 7, we presented the
principle that social network sites and apps should be judged by
whether they help or hinder adolescents in their efforts to build and
maintain close relationships.38 Talk with your children about the apps
that they and their friends use and how they use them. Which ones
are essential for their direct communication? Which ones do they
experience as triggering FOMO (“fear of missing out”), social
comparison, and unrealistically positive presentations of the lives of
other kids? Read Twenge’s book iGen (as a family, if you can) and
then bring your teenager into the discussion of how to minimize the
potential hazards of heavy device use. These devices and apps are

extremely appealing and addictive, so it may be difficult for children
to self-regulate. You may need to use a parental-restrictions app39 or
the parental-restrictions setting on your child’s devices to manage and
monitor usage.40 And pay attention to what you are doing, too. Is your
device use reducing the quality of your time with your child?41
C. Protect your child’s sleep. Getting enough sleep will help your child
succeed in school, avoid accidents, and stave off depression, among its
many other benefits.42 Yet most teens in America aren’t getting
enough sleep, and one reason is that so many are staying up late
peering at their screens, experiencing painful social comparisons, and
disrupting their sleep-wake cycles with light.43 Electronic device use
should be discontinued thirty to sixty minutes before bedtime, at
which point all devices should be placed in a box or drawer in the
kitchen (or somewhere away from the child’s bedroom).

6. Support a New National Norm: Service or Work
Before College
As we reported in chapter 7, kids grow up more slowly these days.44 That
trend—taking longer to reach adult milestones—has been going on for
decades,45 but it has been especially visible with iGen. There’s nothing
intrinsically wrong with delaying adulthood, but if that’s happening, then
shouldn’t we consider delaying the start of college, too? Today’s college
students are suffering from much higher rates of anxiety and depression than
did the Millennials or any other generation. They are cutting and killing
themselves in higher numbers. Many are embracing safetyism and are
objecting to books and ideas that gave Millennials little trouble. Whatever we
are doing, it is not working.
We propose that Americans consider adopting a new national norm:
taking a year off after high school—a “gap year”—as Malia Obama did in
2016. It’s an idea that has been gaining support among high school
counselors, experts in adolescent development, and college admissions
officers.46 High school graduates can spend a year working and learning away
from their parents, exploring their interests, developing interpersonal skills,

and generally maturing before arriving on campus. The year after high school
is also an ideal time for teens to perform national service as a civic rite of
passage.47 Retired General Stanley McChrystal is the chair of Service Year
Alliance, an organization that supports recent high school or college
graduates in finding full-time, paid opportunities to spend a year working on
projects to benefit American communities.48 General McChrystal is at the
forefront of an effort to create a national expectation that all Americans spend
one year in some kind of service between the ages of eighteen and twentyeight. “Through such service,” he says, “young Americans from different
income levels, races, ethnicities, political affiliations and religious beliefs
could learn to work together to get things done.”49 We agree, and we believe
that whether that year involves service or work, it would be good for
America’s polarized democracy if that year were spent in a part of the country
very different from the one in which the young adult grew up.50
• • • • •
Robert Zimmer, the president of the University of Chicago, was interviewed
in 2018 about the school’s reputation for intellectual excellence and open
inquiry. He noted that many students arrive on college campuses unprepared
for a culture of free speech:
High schools prepare students to take more advanced mathematics, and
they prepare them to write history papers, and so on . . . [but] how are high
schools doing in preparing students to be students in a college of open
discourse and free argumentation?51

If parents and teachers can raise children who are antifragile; if middle
schools and high schools can cultivate the intellectual virtues; if all high
school graduates spend a year doing service or paid work away from home,
before beginning college at age nineteen or later, we think most students will
be ready for anything.

CHAPTER 13

Wiser Universities

A

ristotle often evaluated a thing with respect to its “telos”—its purpose,
end, or goal. The telos of a knife is to cut. A knife that does not cut
well is not a good knife. The telos of a physician is health or healing. A
physician who cannot heal is not a good physician. What is the telos of a
university?
The most obvious answer is “truth”—the word appears on so many
university crests. For example, Veritas (“truth”) appears on Harvard’s crest,
and Lux et Veritas (“light and truth”) appears on Yale’s. If we allow the word
“knowledge” as a close relative of truth, then we take in many more university
mottos, such as the University of Chicago’s, which, translated from Latin, is
“Let knowledge grow from more to more; and so be human life enriched.”
(Even the fictional Faber College in the movie Animal House had the motto
“Knowledge is good.”)1
Of course, universities are now complex multiversities that have many
departments, centers, stakeholders, and functions. The president’s office has
many goals besides pursuing the truth; so does the athletics department and
the student health center. So do the students and the faculty. But why are all
of these people and offices together in the first place? Why do people see
universities as important and, until recently, as trusted institutions,2 worthy
of receiving billions of dollars of public subsidy? Because there is widespread
public agreement that the discovery and transmission of truth is a noble goal
and a public good.
If the telos of a university is truth, then a university that fails to add to
humanity’s growing body of knowledge, or that fails to transmit the best of
that knowledge to its students, is not a good university. If scholars do not

advance the frontiers of knowledge within their disciplines, or if they betray
the truth to satisfy other goals (such as accumulating wealth or advancing an
ideology), then they are not good scholars. If professors do not pass on to
their students a richer understanding of the truth, as it has been discovered in
their discipline, along with skills and habits that will make them better able to
find the truth after they graduate, then they are not good professors.
There are alternative candidates one might propose for the telos of a
university. Perhaps the most common alternative is something about
progress, change, or making the world a better place. Karl Marx once
critiqued the academy with these words: “The philosophers have only
interpreted the world, in various ways; the point is to change it.”3 Some
students and faculty today seem to think that the purpose of scholarship is to
bring about social change, and the purpose of education is to train students to
more effectively bring about such change.4
We disagree. The truth is powerful, yet the process by which we arrive at
truth is easily corrupted by the desires of the seekers and the social dynamics
of the community. If a university is united around a telos of change or social
progress, scholars will be motivated to reach conclusions that are consistent
with that vision, and the community will impose social costs on those who
reach different conclusions—or who merely ask the wrong questions, as we
saw in chapters 4 and 5. There will always be inconvenient facts for any
political agenda, and you can judge a university, or an academic field, by how
it handles its dissenters.
We agree with former Northwestern University professor Alice Dreger,
who urges activist students and professors to “Carpe datum” (“Seize the
data”).5 In her book Galileo’s Middle Finger, she contends that good
scholarship must “put the search for truth first and the quest for social justice
second.” She explains:
Evidence really is an ethical issue, the most important ethical issue in a
modern democracy. If you want justice, you must work for truth. And if you
want to work for truth, you must do a little more than wish for justice.6

For those who want to attend, teach at, or lead universities of the sort
Dreger imagines, where the telos is truth, we offer advice based on the ideas
and research we covered earlier in this book. We organize our suggestions

under four general principles that can help universities thrive, even in our age
of outrage and polarization. High school students should consider these
principles when applying to college, and college counselors should consider
these principles when recommending schools to prospective applicants and
their parents. We hope that students, professors, alumni, and trustees will
discuss these suggestions with the leadership and administration of their
schools.

1. Entwine Your Identity With Freedom of Inquiry
A. Endorse the Chicago Statement. Most colleges and universities, public
and private, promise free speech, academic freedom, and freedom of
inquiry in glowing language.7 But these preexisting commitments to
free speech, many of which were written in the early twentieth
century, have not stopped professors and students from being
punished for what they say. That is why we recommend that every
college in the country renew its commitment to free speech by
adopting a statement modeled after the one affirmed by the
University of Chicago in 2015. That statement, written by a
committee chaired by legal scholar Geoffrey Stone, comprises a
commitment to free speech and academic freedom updated for our
age of disinvitations, speaker shoutdowns, and speech codes. Thus far,
it has been adopted by administrations or faculty bodies at forty
colleges and universities, including Amherst, Columbia, Johns
Hopkins, Princeton, and Vanderbilt.8
FIRE has produced a modified version of the Chicago Statement
that can serve as a template for other schools (see Appendix 2). Here
is the key passage:
The [INSTITUTION]’s fundamental commitment is to the principle
that debate or deliberation may not be suppressed because the
ideas put forth are thought by some or even by most members of
the [INSTITUTION] community to be offensive, unwise, immoral, or
wrong-headed. It is for the individual members of the
[INSTITUTION] community, not for the [INSTITUTION] as an

institution, to make those judgments for themselves, and to act on
those judgments not by seeking to suppress speech, but by openly
and vigorously contesting the ideas that they oppose.

Colleges should also review their policies to ensure that they are
consistent with the First Amendment. Public colleges are legally
required to protect the expressive rights of students and faculty on
campus, so making sure policies do not infringe on free speech is not
only good for students, it also avoids the possibility of the college
being on the losing side of a First Amendment lawsuit. As for the
private colleges that promise freedom of speech, academic freedom,
and free inquiry, revising (or eliminating) speech codes is a great sign
that they are serious. Prospective applicants should take colleges’
speech codes into account when deciding where to apply, and college
students should be aware of their own school’s policies.9
B. Establish a practice of not responding to public outrage. Strong and
clear policies on free speech and academic freedom are useless if the
people at the top aren’t willing to stand by them when the going gets
tough and the leadership faces a pressure campaign—whether from
on or off campus. A university will find it easier to stand by these
principles if the president publicly commits to them at the start of
each year, before any controversies break out. Of course, if a student
or faculty member’s speech or behavior, whether online, in class, or in
other campus settings, includes true threats, harassment, incitement
to imminent lawless action, or any other kind of speech that is not
protected by the First Amendment, the university should act. But
even in these cases, university presidents should not act rashly; they
should follow their own written policies and disciplinary procedures,
which should be designed to ensure that any accused faculty member
or student gets a fair hearing. The more reactive universities are to
public outrage or illiberal demands for censorship and punishment,
the more outrage and illiberal demands they will receive. In an age
when outrage can be swift and intense but has a short half-life,
universities should allow time for tempers to cool. This is particularly
important for protecting junior and adjunct faculty, who can be fired
far more easily than tenured faculty.

C. Do not allow the “heckler’s veto.” University presidents must make it
clear that nobody has the right to prevent a fellow member of the
community from attending or hearing a lecture. Protest that does not
interfere with others’ freedom of expression is protected speech and is
a legitimate form of productive disagreement. Boisterous protests that
briefly interfere with the rights of other audience members may even
be allowed. But if the sum total of protesters’ actions substantially
interferes with the ability of audience members to listen, or the
speaker to speak, then those who are responsible for the interference
must face some punishment. Prospective students should avoid
attending colleges that allow hecklers to disrupt events with no
penalty.10

2. Pick the Best Mix of People for the Mission
A. Admit more students who are older and can show evidence of their
ability to live independently. As we said in the previous chapter,
adulthood is arriving later and later, and this trend has been going on
for decades.11 We believe there would be many benefits to students, to
universities, and to the nation if a new national norm emerged of
taking a gap year, or a year of national service, or a few years of
military service, before attending college. Prestigious universities have
enormous power to promote that new norm by announcing that they
will give preference to students who take time off in ways that prepare
them for independence. If universities stop admitting so many
students whose childhoods were devoted to test prep and resume
building and start admitting more students who can demonstrate a
measure of autonomy, the culture on campus is likely to improve
dramatically.
B. Admit more students who have attended schools that teach the
“intellectual virtues.” If prestigious universities draw heavily from
schools that emphasize intellectual virtues, like the one we described
in the previous chapter, and that give students practice in debate, then
many more K–12 schools will adopt this approach. The next

generation of college students will be better prepared to engage with
challenging ideas and diverse fellow students.
C. Include viewpoint diversity in diversity policies. Diversity confers
benefits on a community in large part because it brings together
people who approach questions from different points of view. In
recent decades, as we noted in chapter 5, the professoriate and the
student body have become more diverse by race, gender, and other
characteristics but less diverse in terms of political perspectives. We
suggest that universities add “viewpoint diversity” to their diversity
statements and strategies. This does not require equal or proportional
representation of political views among the faculty or students, and it
does not require that all viewpoints be represented, but it does
commit the university to avoiding political uniformity and orthodoxy.
12

3. Orient and Educate for Productive Disagreement
A. Explicitly reject the Untruth of Fragility: What doesn’t kill you makes
you weaker. A university devoted to the pursuit of truth must prepare
its students for conflict, controversy, and argument. Many students
will experience their most cherished beliefs being challenged, and they
must learn that this is not harassment or a personal attack; it is part of
the process by which people do each other the favor of counteracting
each other’s confirmation bias. Students must also learn to make wellreasoned arguments while avoiding ad hominem arguments, which
criticize people rather than ideas. In summer reading suggestions and
in orientation materials for new students, universities should clearly
embrace the message of Ruth Simmons, former president of Brown
University and the first black president of an Ivy League university:
“One’s voice grows stronger in encounters with opposing views. . . .
The collision of views and ideologies is in the DNA of the academic
enterprise. We do not need any collision avoidance technology
here.”13 Explain that classrooms and public lectures at your university
are not intellectual “safe spaces.” (Of course, students have a right to

freedom of association, and they are free to join and create those
elsewhere, on their own time.14) Discourage the creep of the word
“unsafe” to encompass “uncomfortable.” Show students the short
video clip we described in chapter 4 of Van Jones urging them to
forswear emotional “safety” and instead treat college as “the gym.”15
B. Explicitly reject the Untruth of Emotional Reasoning: Always trust your
feelings. In orientations, colleges should emphasize the power of the
confirmation bias and the prevalence of cognitive distortions. It is
challenging to think well; we are easily led astray by feelings and by
group loyalties. In the age of social media, cyber trolls, and fake news,
it is a national and global crisis that people so readily follow their
feelings to embrace outlandish stories about their enemies. A
community in which members hold one another accountable for
using evidence to substantiate their assertions is a community that
can, collectively, pursue truth in the age of outrage. Emphasize the
importance of critical thinking, and then give students the tools to
engage in better critical thinking. One such tool is CBT. It is relatively
easy to train students in CBT directly, or to offer free access to
websites and apps that they can use on their own. (See Appendix 1.)
Another tool is the OpenMind program, which equips students with
the skills to navigate difficult conversations (see
OpenMindPlatform.org).
C. Explicitly reject the Untruth of Us Versus Them: Life is a battle between
good people and evil people. Look closely at how identity politics is
introduced to first-year students, especially in summer readings and
orientation materials. Draw on readings that take a non-moralistic,
systems-level approach to understanding social problems. Given the
diversity of the incoming class, including international students, it is a
good idea to talk about the many ways that students may unwittingly
offend or exclude one another, especially in this technologically
supercharged age. Encourage politeness and empathy without
framing issues as micro-aggressions. Try instead to use a more
charitable frame, such as members of a family giving one another the
benefit of the doubt; when problems arise, they try to resolve things
privately and informally.

4. Draw a Larger Circle Around the Community
Throughout this book, we have emphasized a basic principle of social
psychology: the more you separate people and point out differences among
them, the more divided and less trusting they will become.16 Conversely, the
more you emphasize common goals or interests, shared fate, and common
humanity, the more they will see one another as fellow human beings, treat
one another well, and come to appreciate one another’s contributions to the
community. Pauli Murray expressed the power of this principle when she
wrote, “When my brothers try to draw a circle to exclude me, I shall draw a
larger circle to include them.”17 Students, professors, and administrators can
all play an important role in widening that circle.
A. Foster school spirit. Some colleges work hard, in the opening weeks, to
foster “school spirit” and forge a common identity. School spirit may
sound trivial, but it can create a community of greater trust within
which harder issues can be tackled later on.
B. Protect physical safety. We have argued throughout this book that
emotional comfort should not be confused with physical safety. But as
we showed in chapter 6, we live in a time when extremists
increasingly use the internet and social media to threaten and harass
students and professors, particularly those who are members of
historically marginalized groups. Sometimes the threats leave the
internet and come to campus. Universities must pay for adequate
security; they must respond vigorously and work with campus police,
local police, the FBI, and other authorities to investigate and punish
threats and acts of violence, and they must do so consistently. Given
frequent reports from students of color across the country regarding
how they are sometimes treated by campus and local police, it is
essential that police take extra care not to treat them like potential
criminals. It is vital that students from all backgrounds are safe from
physical attacks and know that their campus police are there to
protect them.
C. Host civil, cross-partisan events for students. When a campus group
invites speakers not for the quality of their ideas but for their ability to

shock, offend, and provoke an overreaction, it exacerbates the
mutual-outrage process we described in chapter 6. There are many
organizations that can help bring interesting and ideologically diverse
speakers to campus who can demonstrate the value of exposure to
political diversity. If you are a student, try to enlist your school’s
College Republicans and College Democrats to cohost events.
Whether or not you succeed, consider starting a chapter of
BridgeUSA, a student-run network that hosts constructive political
discussions.18
IDENTIFYING A WISE UNIVERSITY
Five questions alumni, parents, college counselors, and prospective
students should ask universities:
1. What steps do you take (if any) to teach incoming students about
academic freedom and free inquiry before they take their first
classes?
2. How would you handle a demand that a professor be fired because of
an opinion he or she expressed in an article or interview, which other
people found deeply offensive?
3. What would your institution do if a controversial speaker were
scheduled to speak, and large protests that included credible threats
of violence were planned?
4. How is your institution responding to the increase in students who
suffer from anxiety and depression?
5. What does your university do to foster a sense of shared identity?
Look for answers that indicate that the institution has a high
tolerance for vigorous disagreement but no tolerance for violence or
intimidation. Look for answers that indicate a presumption that
students are antifragile, combined with the recognition that many
students today need support as they work toward emotional growth.
Look for answers that indicate that the institution tries to draw an
encompassing circle around its members, within which differences can
more productively be explored.

Many U.S. universities are having difficulties these days, but we believe
the problems we discussed in this book are fixable. Combined with the
changes we suggested in the previous chapter, the changes in this chapter can
strengthen a university’s ability to pursue the telos of truth. A school that
makes freedom of inquiry an essential part of its identity, selects students who
show special promise as seekers of truth, orients and prepares those students
for productive disagreement, and then draws a larger circle around the whole
community within which everyone knows that they are physically safe and
that they belong—such a school would be inspiring to join, a joy to attend,
and a blessing to society.

CONCLUSION

Wiser Societies

T

his is a book about wisdom and its opposite. It is a book about three
psychological principles and about what happens to young people
when parents and educators—acting with the best of intentions—
implement policies that are inconsistent with those principles. We can
summarize the entire book by contrasting the three opening quotations and
the three Great Untruths.
PSYCHOLOGICAL PRINCIPLE

WISDOM

GREAT UNTRUTH

Young people are antifragile.

Prepare the child for the road, not
the road for the child.

What doesn’t kill you makes you
weaker.

We are all prone to emotional
Your worst enemy cannot harm you
reasoning and the confirmation bias. as much as your own thoughts,
unguarded. But once mastered, no
one can help you as much, not even
your father or your mother.

Always trust your feelings.

We are all prone to dichotomous
thinking and tribalism.

Life is a battle between good people
and evil people.

The line dividing good and evil cuts
through the heart of every human
being.

In Part I, we explained the three psychological principles and showed how
some recent practices and policies on many campuses encourage students to
embrace unwisdom rather than wisdom. In Part II, we showed what happens
when students embrace all three untruths, within an institution that has low
levels of viewpoint diversity, weak leadership, and a high sense of threat
(caused in part by a real escalation of political polarization and provocations
from off campus). In Part III, we showed that there is no simple explanation
for what is happening. You have to look at six interacting trends: rising
political polarization; rising rates of adolescent depression and anxiety; a shift
to more fearful, protective, and intensive parenting in middle-class and

wealthy families; widespread play deprivation and risk deprivation for
members of iGen; an expanding campus bureaucracy taking an increasingly
overprotective posture; and a rising passion for justice combined with a
growing commitment to attaining “equal outcomes” in all areas. In Part IV,
we offered suggestions based on the three psychological principles for
improving childrearing, K–12 education, and universities.
We discussed some alarming trends in this book, particularly in the
chapters on America’s rising political polarization and rising rates of
adolescent depression, anxiety, and suicide. These problems are serious, and
we see no sign that either trend will be reversing in the next decade. And yet
we are heartened and persuaded by cognitive psychologist Steven Pinker’s
argument, in Enlightenment Now, that in the long run most things are getting
better, quickly and globally. Pinker notes that there are many psychological
reasons why people are—and have always been—prone to catastrophizing
about the future. For example, some of the problems we discuss in this book
are examples of the “problems of progress” that we described in the
Introduction. As we make progress in such areas as safety, comfort, and
inclusion, we raise our expectations. The progress is real, but as we adapt to
our improved conditions, we often fail to notice it.
We certainly don’t want to fall prey to catastrophizing, so we should look
for contrary evidence and contrary ways to appraise our present
circumstances. Here’s a powerful antidote to pessimism—a quote that was
first brought to our attention by science writer Matt Ridley in his 2010 book,
The Rational Optimist:
We cannot absolutely prove that those are in error who tell us that society
has reached a turning point, that we have seen our best days. But so said
all who came before us, and with just as much apparent reason. . . . On
what principle is it that, when we see nothing but improvement behind us,
we are to expect nothing but deterioration before us?1

Those words were written in 1830 by Thomas Babington Macaulay, a British
historian and member of Parliament. Britain’s best days were certainly not
behind it.
Pinker and Ridley both base their optimism in part on a simple
observation: The more serious a problem gets, the more inducements there

are for people, companies, and governments to find innovative solutions,
whether driven by personal commitment, market forces, or political
pressures.
How might things change? Let us sketch out one possible vision, drawing
on some “green shoots” that we already see. These are countertrends that may
already be under way today, as this book goes to press in May 2018.
1. Social media. Social media is a major part of the problem, implicated
both in rising rates of mental illness and in rising political polarization.
But after two years of scandals, public outrage, and calls for government
regulation, the major companies are finally responding; they are at least
tweaking algorithms, verifying some identities, and taking steps to reduce
harassment. In the wake of the Cambridge Analytica fiasco, there is likely
to be far more pressure applied by governments. Parents, schools, and
students will respond, too, gradually adopting better practices, just as we
adapted (imperfectly) to life surrounded by junk food and cigarettes.
Green shoots: Facebook2 and Twitter are both hiring social psychologists
and putting out calls for research on how their platforms can change to
“increase the collective health, openness, and civility of public
conversation.”3 We hope to see some substantial changes in the next few
years that will reduce the polarizing, depression-inducing, and
harassment-supporting effects of social media. A partnership between
Common Sense Media and the Center for Humane Technology (founded
by a coalition of early employees at Facebook and Google) is working with
the tech industry to lessen the negative effects of device use, especially for
children. Their campaign, The Truth About Tech, informs students,
parents, and teachers about the health effects of various technologies, and
aims to reform the industry so that tech products are healthier for users.4
2. Free play and freedom. The adolescent mental health crisis has finally
caught the attention of the public. As more parents and educators come to
see that overprotection is harming children, and as we move further and
further away from the crime wave of the 1970s and 1980s, more parents
will try harder to let their kids play outside, with one another, and without
adult supervision.

Green shoots: In March 2018, Utah became the first state to pass into law a
“free-range parenting” bill—and with unanimous bipartisan support.5 As
we noted in chapter 8, parents in some localities currently run the risk of
arrest for letting their children out without supervision. The Utah law
affirms children’s right to some unsupervised time, and parents’ right to
not be arrested when they give it to them. As more states pass laws like
these, parents and schools will be more willing to try out policies and
practices that give kids more autonomy and responsibility.
3. Better identity politics. With the rise of the alt-right and white
nationalism since 2016, more scholars are writing about the ways in which
emphasizing racial identity leads to bad outcomes in a multiracial society.
It has become increasingly clear that identitarian extremists on both sides
rely on the most outrageous acts of the other side to unite their group
around its common enemy. This process is not unique to the United
States, a fact that can be seen in Julia Ebner’s new book, The Rage: The
Vicious Circle of Islamist and Far Right Extremism. Ebner, an Austrian
researcher at the London-based Institute for Strategic Dialogue, did
harrowing fieldwork befriending members of ISIS and members of farright groups, such as the English Defense League. In an interview, she
summarized her conclusions:
What we have is the far right depicting Islamist extremists as
representative of the whole Muslim community, while Islamist
extremists depict the far right as representative of the entire West. As
the extremes [pull more people from] the political center, these ideas
become mainstream, and the result is a clash-of-civilizations narrative
turning into a self-fulfilling prophecy.6

Green shoots: More writers from many backgrounds are calling for a
rethinking of identity politics. Turkish American political scientist Timur
Kuran,7 Chinese American law professor Amy Chua,8 and gay author and
activist Jonathan Rauch9 (among many others) have been sounding the
alarm about how the common-enemy identity politics of the far right and
far left feed off one another. These authors are looking for ways to shortcircuit the process and shift to a common-humanity perspective; they

generally arrive at some version of the basic social psychology principles
we’ve discussed in this book. Here is Rauch, reviewing and praising
Chua’s recent book, Political Tribes: Group Instinct and the Fate of
Nations:
Psychological research shows that tribalism can be countered and
overcome by teamwork: by projects that join individuals in a common
task on an equal footing. One such task, it turns out, can be to reduce
tribalism. In other words, with conscious effort, humans can break the
tribal spiral, and many are trying. “You’d never know it from cable news
or social media,” Chua writes, “but all over the country there are signs
of people trying to cross divides and break out of their political
tribes.”10

The Dalai Lama has long urged such an approach, based on the same
social psychology. In May 2018, he tweeted this:
I’m Tibetan, I’m Buddhist and I’m the Dalai Lama, but if I emphasize
these differences it sets me apart and raises barriers with other people.
What we need to do is to pay more attention to the ways in which we
are the same as other people.11

4. Universities committing to truth as a process. The University of Chicago
has long been an outlier in the intensity of its academic culture. (It
proudly embraces the unofficial motto “Where fun goes to die.”12) When
safetyism was sweeping through many other top American universities, it
had less effect at Chicago. It is no coincidence that the best recent
statement on freedom of expression was drafted there (see Appendix 2).
Green shoots: Many universities are adopting the Chicago Statement and
are beginning to push back against the creep of safetyism. If that stance
works out well for them and if those schools move up on various rankings
and lists, then many more universities will follow suit.
Putting this all together: We predict that things will improve, and the
change may happen quite suddenly at some point in the next few years. As far
as we can tell from private conversations, most university presidents reject the

culture of safetyism. They know it is bad for students and bad for free inquiry,
but they find it politically difficult to say so publicly. From our conversations
with students, we believe that most high school and college students despise
call-out culture and would prefer to be at a school that had little of it. Most
students are not fragile, they are not “snowflakes,” and they are not afraid of
ideas. So if a small group of universities is able to develop a different sort of
academic culture—one that finds ways to make students from all identity
groups feel welcome without using the divisive methods that seem to be
backfiring on so many campuses—we think that market forces will take care
of the rest. Applications and enrollment at those schools will surge. Alumni
donations will increase. More high schools will prepare students to compete
for slots at those schools, and more parents will prepare their kids to gain
admission to those schools. This will mean less test prep, less overprotection,
more free play, and more independence. Entire towns and school districts will
organize themselves to enable and encourage more free-range parenting.
They will do this not primarily to help their students get into college but to
reverse the epidemic of depression, anxiety, self-injury, and suicide that is
afflicting our children. There will be a growing recognition across the country
that safetyism is dangerous and that it is stunting our children’s development.
• • • • •
Some of the earliest colleges in Britain’s American colonies were founded to
train clergy. But as a more distinctively practical American culture developed,
schools were increasingly founded to train young people in the skills and
virtues that were essential for a self-governing civil society. In 1750, as he was
founding the school that later became the University of Pennsylvania,
Benjamin Franklin wrote this to Samuel Johnson:
Nothing is of more importance to the public weal, than to form and train up
youth in wisdom and virtue. Wise and good men are, in my opinion, the
strength of a state: much more so than riches or arms, which, under the
management of Ignorance and Wickedness, often draw on destruction,
instead of providing for the safety of a people.13

This is a book about education and wisdom. If we can educate the next
generation more wisely, they will be stronger, richer, more virtuous, and even
safer.

ACKNOWLEDGMENTS

An unstated premise of this book is that thinking is social. As lone
individuals, each of us is not terribly smart, for we are all prone to cognitive
distortions and the confirmation bias. But if you put people into the right
sorts of groups and networks, where ideas can be shared, criticized, and
improved, something better and truer can emerge. We would like to thank
the many people in our groups and networks who made this book better and
truer.
First is Pamela Paresky, who joined us during the early stages of the
project as Greg’s chief research officer at FIRE. An accomplished writer with
an interdisciplinary Ph.D. from the University of Chicago’s Committee on
Human Development, Pamela came to the project having written, taught, and
spoken about themes similar to those in this book. A regular online
contributor to Psychology Today, Pamela became our subject matter expert on
many areas of research, and her extensive editing of the entire book helped us
blend our two writing styles into one. We are extraordinarily grateful for the
depth of her knowledge and expertise. She played devil’s advocate, pressed us
to sharpen our points, and contributed many of the important ideas in this
book—including coining the term “safetyism.”
Greg would like to thank many other people at FIRE, beginning with the
board of directors for allowing him to undertake this project. In particular,
Greg thanks FIRE’s current chairman, Daniel Shuchman, who read multiple
drafts of this book and offered advice throughout the process. Greg also wants
to single out his remarkably unflappable executive assistant, Eli Feldman, and
extraordinary former research assistant, Haley Hudler. Eli is a 2016 Yale
graduate with a degree in psychology and was endlessly helpful from outline
to completion, with keen insight about psychology and iGen, his own
generation. Haley was with us as we wrote the original article for The Atlantic
and the book proposal, and she performed several months of research for the

book before she left FIRE to attend the University of Georgia School of Law.
We would also like to thank FIRE attorney Adam Goldstein for his fast and
thorough research in the last few months of the editing process, and FIRE’s
staff on the whole. Everyone from executive director Robert Shibley (and his
wife, Araz Shibley, who helped us research several cases) and the most senior
employees to our newest student “co-ops” (Alyssa Bennett, Kelli Kushner,
and Matthew Williams) helped along the way. While we can’t list everyone at
FIRE who pitched in, we must thank Sarah McLaughlin and Ryne Weiss for
their incisive feedback and their insights about the climate on campus today,
and Will Creeley, whose expert writing skills helped us fine-tune the
manuscript. In addition, we are grateful for research support given by Laura
Beltz and Cynthia Meyersburg, and for the feedback and advice from Peter
Bonilla, Nico Perrino, Bonnie Snyder and FIRE attorney (and unofficial FIRE
copy editor-in-chief) Samantha Harris, whose keen eye and unparalleled
attention to detail during the final stages of production were invaluable.
Jon’s acknowledgments begin with Caroline Mehl, a recent graduate of
Yale and Oxford whom he hired as a research assistant well before this project
began. Caroline contributed many ideas and most of the graphs. She pushed
us to take multiple perspectives and, in a move that John Stuart Mill would
have praised, she found us five readers who viewed campus events very
differently from the way we did. We thank those readers, who were masters of
constructive and nuanced criticism: Travis Gidado, Madeline High, Ittai Orr,
Danielle Tomson, and one who wishes to remain anonymous. We also thank
these readers who gave us detailed and very valuable comments on the entire
manuscript, critiquing it from the left: Helen Kramer, Shuli Passow, and
Khalil Smith; critiquing it from the right: Steve Messenger and William
Modahl; and critiquing it from an unidentified location: Larry Amsel,
Heather Heying, and Daniel Shuchman.
Jon owes special thanks to Valerie Purdie-Greenaway, whose deep
critique of our first draft marked a turning point for the project. He is always
grateful to the team at Heterodox Academy, particularly Raffi Grinberg, Nick
Phillips, and Jeremy Willinger, who all read the whole manuscript; Sean
Stevens, who helped with research; and Deb Mashek, who came aboard to
lead the organization in a new direction that will make universities wiser.
Some of the scholars and experts whose work underlies the core
arguments of the book helped us frequently along the way. We thank Erika

Christakis, Peter Gray, Stephen Holland, Robert Leahy, Julie Lythcott-Haims,
Hara Estroff Marano, Lenore Skenazy, and Jean Twenge.
We are grateful to the many friends, colleagues, and acquaintances who
gave us valuable comments on one or more chapters, helped us analyze data,
or provided their professional expertise: Jason Baehr, Andrew Becker, Caleb
Bernard, Paul Bloom, Samantha Boardman, Bradley Campbell, Dennis
Dalton, Clark Freshman, Brian Gallagher, Andrew Gates, Christopher Gates,
Benjamin Ginsberg, Jesse Graham, Dan Griswold, Benjamin Haidt, Rebecca
Haidt, Terry Hartle, Ravi Iyer, Robb Jones, Christina King, Susan Kresnicka,
Calvin Lai, Marcella Larsen, Harry Lewis, Vanessa Lobue, Brian Lowe, Jason
Manning, Ian McCready-Flora, John McWhorter, John Palfrey, Mike Paros,
Nando Pelusi, Steven Pinker, Anne Rasmussen, Bradly Reed, Fabio Rojas,
Kathleen Santora, Sally Satel, Steve Schultz, Mark Shulman, Nadine Strossen,
Joshua Sullivan, Marianne Toldalagi, John Tomasi, Tracy Tomasso, Rebecca
Tuvel, Lee Tyner, Steve Vaisey, Robert Von Hallberg, Zach Wood, and Jared
Zuker. We thank Omar Mahmood for volunteering to create our website,
TheCoddling.com.
We thank Don Peck, at The Atlantic, for seeing the potential of this
project back in 2014 and launching it, transformed, in 2015. We thank our
agent, John Brockman, along with his team at Brockman, Inc., for guiding us
to Penguin Press and to our brilliant editor, Virginia “Ginny” Smith. Ginny
refined our ideas and our prose, working harder with each deadline we
missed.
And last, we thank our families. Greg thanks his wife, Michelle LaBlanc,
for her unending patience, flexibility, and support in this intense process—
during which she gave birth to Maxwell (born November 2017) and
continued to be an amazing mother to rambunctious two-year-old Benjamin
while Daddy was kind of swamped.
Jon thanks his wife, Jayne Riew, who improves all that he writes, sees so
many things that he misses—in writing and in life—and does the unpublished
work in the shared adventure of raising Max and Francesca. Jon ends with an
appreciation of his mother, Elaine Haidt, who passed away in May of 2017,
while we were writing this book. She took parenting classes in the 1960s from
the psychologist Haim Ginott, who taught her the maxim “Don’t just do
something, stand there.” Jon and his sisters, Rebecca and Samantha, were so
blessed to have a mother who knew what to do, and what not to do.

APPENDIX 1

How to Do CBT
Sometimes people who wish to practice CBT find therapists who train them
in techniques for diagnosing and then altering their distorted thought
patterns. In other cases, they simply read books about how to practice CBT. A
book that American mental health professionals frequently recommend for
treating depression is David Burns’s best-seller, Feeling Good: The New Mood
Therapy. Several studies have found that reading the book—yes, just reading
the book—is an effective treatment for depression.1 We also recommend Dr.
Robert Leahy’s excellent book The Worry Cure: Seven Steps to Stop Worry
from Stopping You, which is more focused on anxiety, and is updated with the
latest CBT techniques.
The beauty of CBT is how easy it is to learn: All you need is pen and paper
(or a laptop, or a device with an app that lets you take notes). The specific
details for practicing CBT differ from book to book and therapist to therapist,
but the basic process is something like this:
1. When you are feeling anxious, depressed, or otherwise distressed, take
a moment to write down what you are feeling.
2. Write down your level of distress. (For example, you could score it on
a scale of 1 to 100.)
3. Write down what happened and what your automatic thoughts were
when you felt the pang of anxiety or despair. (For example, “Someone
I was interested in canceled our date. I said to myself, ‘This always
happens. No one will ever want to go out with me. I’m a total loser.’”)
4. Look at the categories of distorted automatic thoughts below, and ask
yourself: Is this thought a cognitive distortion? Write down the

cognitive distortions you notice. (For example, looking at the
automatic thoughts in number 3 above, you might write,
“personalizing, overgeneralizing, labeling, and catastrophizing.”)
5. Look at the evidence for and against your thought.
6. Ask yourself what someone might say who disagreed with you. Is
there any merit in that opinion?
7. Consider again what happened, and reevaluate the situation without
the cognitive distortions.
8. Write down your new thoughts and feelings. (For example, “I am sad
and disappointed that a date I was excited about got canceled.”)
9. Write down again, using the same scale as before, how anxious,
depressed, or otherwise distressed you feel. Chances are the number
will be lower—perhaps a lot lower.
CBT takes discipline, work, and commitment. Many therapists
recommend doing this type of exercise at least once or twice a day. With time
and practice, you are likely to find that your distorted negative thoughts no
longer have the grip on you that they once did. (Note that in some cases, your
initial automatic thoughts may not be distorted. Sometimes they turn out to
be entirely reasonable.)
As we’ve argued in this book, the practice of CBT and its principles are
useful even for people who do not experience depression or anxiety. We
encourage all readers to learn more about CBT. If you are interested in
working with a CBT therapist, you can find a list of doctors near you at the
Association for Behavioral and Cognitive Therapies (http://www.findcbt.org)
and the Academy of Cognitive Therapy (http://www.academyofct.org).
Of course, anyone who is suffering from severe psychological distress
should seek professional help.
On the next pages we reprint the full list of cognitive distortions from
Treatment Plans and Interventions for Depression and Anxiety Disorders,
Second Edition, by Robert L. Leahy, Stephen J. F. Holland, and Lata K.
McGinn (reprinted with permission).

Categories of Distorted Automatic Thoughts
1. MIND READING: You assume that you know what people think without
having sufficient evidence of their thoughts. “He thinks I’m a loser.”
2. FORTUNE-TELLING: You predict the future negatively: Things will get
worse, or there is danger ahead. “I’ll fail that exam,” or “I won’t get
the job.”
3. CATASTROPHIZING: You believe that what has happened or will happen
will be so awful and unbearable that you won’t be able to stand it. “It
would be terrible if I failed.”
4. LABELING: You assign global negative traits to yourself and others. “I’m
undesirable,” or “He’s a rotten person.”
5. DISCOUNTING POSITIVES: You claim that the positive things you or others do
are trivial. “That’s what wives are supposed to do—so it doesn’t count
when she’s nice to me,” or “Those successes were easy, so they don’t
matter.”
6. NEGATIVE FILTERING: You focus almost exclusively on the negatives and
seldom notice the positives. “Look at all of the people who don’t like
me.”
7. OVERGENERALIZING: You perceive a global pattern of negatives on the basis
of a single incident. “This generally happens to me. I seem to fail at a
lot of things.”
8. DICHOTOMOUS THINKING: You view events or people in all-or-nothing
terms. “I get rejected by everyone,” or “It was a complete waste of
time.”
9. SHOULDS: You interpret events in terms of how things should be, rather
than simply focusing on what is. “I should do well. If I don’t, then I’m
a failure.”
10. PERSONALIZING: You attribute a disproportionate amount of the blame to
yourself for negative events, and you fail to see that certain events are
also caused by others. “The marriage ended because I failed.”
11. BLAMING: You focus on the other person as the source of your negative
feelings, and you refuse to take responsibility for changing yourself.
“She’s to blame for the way I feel now,” or “My parents caused all my
problems.”

12. UNFAIR COMPARISONS: You interpret events in terms of standards that are
unrealistic—for example, you focus primarily on others who do better
than you and find yourself inferior in the comparison. “She’s more
successful than I am,” or “Others did better than I did on the test.”
13. REGRET ORIENTATION: You focus on the idea that you could have done
better in the past, rather than on what you can do better now. “I could
have had a better job if I had tried,” or “I shouldn’t have said that.”
14. WHAT IF?: You keep asking a series of questions about “what if”
something happens, and you fail to be satisfied with any of the
answers. “Yeah, but what if I get anxious?” or “What if I can’t catch
my breath?”
15. EMOTIONAL REASONING: You let your feelings guide your interpretation of
reality. “I feel depressed; therefore, my marriage is not working out.”
16. INABILITY TO DISCONFIRM: You reject any evidence or arguments that might
contradict your negative thoughts. For example, when you have the
thought “I’m unlovable,” you reject as irrelevant any evidence that
people like you. Consequently, your thought cannot be refuted.
“That’s not the real issue. There are deeper problems. There are other
factors.”
17. JUDGMENT FOCUS: You view yourself, others, and events in terms of
evaluations as good–bad or superior–inferior, rather than simply
describing, accepting, or understanding. You are continually
measuring yourself and others according to arbitrary standards, and
finding that you and others fall short. You are focused on the
judgments of others as well as your own judgments of yourself. “I
didn’t perform well in college,” or “If I take up tennis, I won’t do
well,” or “Look how successful she is. I’m not successful.”

APPENDIX 2

The Chicago Statement on Principles of
Free Expression
The Chicago Statement on Principles of Free Expression (“The Chicago
Statement”) was created in January of 2015 by a committee led by Geoffrey
Stone, Edward H. Levi Distinguished Service Professor of Law. The
committee was charged with crafting a statement “articulating the
University’s overarching commitment to free, robust, and uninhibited debate
and deliberation among all members of the University’s community.”1 Below
is an abridged and adapted version of the statement FIRE has created in order
to help schools tailor the concepts in the Chicago Statement to their own
schools. By early 2018, over forty institutions had adopted it. One of the
easiest things you can do to improve the situation on campus is to urge any
school with which you have a relationship to adopt its own version of the
Statement.
Because the [INSTITUTION] is committed to free and open inquiry in all
matters, it guarantees all members of the [INSTITUTION] community the
broadest possible latitude to speak, write, listen, challenge, and learn.
Except insofar as limitations on that freedom are necessary to the
functioning of the [INSTITUTION], the [INSTITUTION] fully respects and
supports the freedom of all members of the [INSTITUTION] community “to
discuss any problem that presents itself.”
Of course, the ideas of different members of the [INSTITUTION] community
will often and quite naturally conflict. But it is not the proper role of the
[INSTITUTION] to attempt to shield individuals from ideas and opinions they
find unwelcome, disagreeable, or even deeply offensive. Although the

[INSTITUTION] greatly values civility, and although all members of the
[INSTITUTION] community share in the responsibility for maintaining a
climate of mutual respect, concerns about civility and mutual respect can
never be used as a justification for closing off discussion of ideas, however
offensive or disagreeable those ideas may be to some members of our
community.
The freedom to debate and discuss the merits of competing ideas does not,
of course, mean that individuals may say whatever they wish, wherever
they wish. The [INSTITUTION] may restrict expression that violates the law,
that falsely defames a specific individual, that constitutes a genuine threat
or harassment, that unjustifiably invades substantial privacy or
confidentiality interests, or that is otherwise directly incompatible with the
functioning of the [INSTITUTION]. In addition, the [INSTITUTION] may
reasonably regulate the time, place, and manner of expression to ensure
that it does not disrupt the ordinary activities of the [INSTITUTION]. But
these are narrow exceptions to the general principle of freedom of
expression, and it is vitally important that these exceptions never be used in
a manner that is inconsistent with the [INSTITUTION]’s commitment to a
completely free and open discussion of ideas.
In a word, the [INSTITUTION]’s fundamental commitment is to the principle
that debate or deliberation may not be suppressed because the ideas put
forth are thought by some or even by most members of the [INSTITUTION]
community to be offensive, unwise, immoral, or wrong-headed. It is for the
individual members of the [INSTITUTION] community, not for the
[INSTITUTION] as an institution, to make those judgments for themselves,
and to act on those judgments not by seeking to suppress speech, but by
openly and vigorously contesting the ideas that they oppose. Indeed,
fostering the ability of members of the [INSTITUTION] community to engage
in such debate and deliberation in an effective and responsible manner is
an essential part of the [INSTITUTION]’s educational mission.
As a corollary to the [INSTITUTION]’s commitment to protect and promote
free expression, members of the [INSTITUTION] community must also act
in conformity with the principle of free expression. Although members of the
[INSTITUTION] community are free to criticize and contest the views
expressed on campus, and to criticize and contest speakers who are invited
to express their views on campus, they may not obstruct or otherwise
interfere with the freedom of others to express views they reject or even
loathe. To this end, the [INSTITUTION] has a solemn responsibility not only

to promote a lively and fearless freedom of debate and deliberation, but
also to protect that freedom when others attempt to restrict it.
This resolution is adapted and excerpted from the 2015 University of
Chicago Report of the Committee on Freedom of Expression. The full
statement can be found at:
https://freeexpression.uchicago.edu/page/report-committee-freedomexpression

NOTES

For full information on books and academic journal articles, cited here by last
name(s) and date only, see the References section. These notes are available at
TheCoddling.com, to make it easy for readers to access the many online
resources listed.
Epigraph
1. In Byrom (1993), chapter 3, verses 40–43. The more literal rendering in Mascaro (1973), chapter 3, verses 42–43, has
the same meaning but is not as elegant: “An enemy can hurt an enemy, and a man who hates can harm another man,
but a man’s own mind, if wrongly directed, can do him a far greater harm. A father or a mother or a relative, can
indeed do good to a man; but his own right-directed mind can do to him a far greater good.”
2. Solzhenitsyn (1975), p. 168.

Introduction: The Search for Wisdom
1. Nietzsche (1889/1997). Maxim number 8.
2. Ponos was a minor Greek god of toil, pain, and hardship. Miso means “hatred” (as in “misogyny”), so the ancient
Greek word misoponos means a hater of painful toil and hardship. We thank Professor Ian McCready-Flora,
specialist in ancient Greek philosophy at the University of Virginia, for guiding us to this name. We cast Misoponos
as the oracle of Koalemos. Koalemos is mentioned briefly in Aristophanes’ play The Birds as the god of stupidity.
3. For readers outside the United States, let us take a moment here to clarify a few terms and Americanisms. We’ll use
the words “college” and “university” more or less interchangeably to refer to what in the United Kingdom and
Canada is called “university.” We’ll often refer to “campus” to refer to the grounds, setting, and culture of
universities. “High school” refers to grades nine through twelve, roughly ages fourteen to eighteen. We’ll generally
avoid using the word “liberal” to refer to the left, as is commonly done in the USA; we’ll speak of left and right,
progressive and conservative.
4. Find out more at http://www.theFIRE.org
5. Jarvie, J. (2014, March 3). Trigger happy. The New Republic. Retrieved from
https://newrepublic.com/article/116842/trigger-warnings-have-spread-blogs-college-classes-thats-bad
6. Medina, J. (2014, May 17). Warning: The Literary Canon Could Make Students Squirm. The New York Times.
Retrieved from https://www.nytimes.com/2014/05/18/us/warning-the-literary-canon-could-make-studentssquirm.html
7. Columbia College. (n.d.). The Core curriculum: Literature Humanities. Retrieved from
https://www.college.columbia.edu/core/lithum
8. Johnson, K., Lynch, T., Monroe, E., & Wang, T. (2015, April 30). Our identities matter in Core classrooms. Columbia
Daily Spectator. Retrieved from http://spc.columbiaspectator.com/opinion/2015/04/30/our-identities-matter-coreclassrooms [inactive]
9. The “canon wars” that erupted after the publication of Allan Bloom’s The Closing of the American Mind (1987) were
mostly fought by faculty, but students often sided with the faculty favoring the inclusion of more women and people
of color. For example, in a 1987 rally at Stanford celebrating such diversification, students chanted, “‘Hey hey, ho ho,

Western culture’s got to go.’” See: Bernstein, R. (1988, January 19). In dispute on bias, Stanford is likely to alter
Western culture program. The New York Times. Retrieved from http://www.nytimes.com/1988/01/19/us/in-disputeon-bias-stanford-is-likely-to-alter-western-culture-program.html
10. Pinker (2016), p. 110.
11. Haidt (2006).
12. Nelson, L. (2015, September 14). Obama on liberal college students who want to be “coddled”: “That’s not the way
we learn.” Vox. Retrieved from https://www.vox.com/2015/9/14/9326965/obama-political-correctness
13. There were hints in the United Kingdom as early as 2014; see O’Neill, B. (2014, November 22). Free speech is so last
century. Today’s students want the “right to be comfortable.” Spectator. Retrieved from
https://www.spectator.co.uk/2014/11/free-speech-is-so-last-century-todays-students-want-the-right-to-becomfortable. But the number of news reports about “safe spaces” and related phenomena seemed to increase after
the attention they got in the United States in the fall of 2015. See, for example: Gosden, E. (2016, April 3). Student
accused of violating university “safe space” by raising her hand. The Telegraph. Retrieved from
http://www.telegraph.co.uk/news/2016/04/03/student-accused-of-violating-university-safe-space-by-raising-he
14. See a summary of research and news reports from several countries at https://heterodoxacademy.org/in ternational
15. There were dozens of cases, among them Eric Garner, Mike Brown, Tamir Rice, and Freddie Gray. It is less wellknown that there were also several black women who were victims of police violence, including Michelle Cusseaux,
Tanisha Anderson, Aura Rosser, and Meagan Hockaday. For more information on police shootings, see: Kelly, K., et
al. (2016, December 30). Fatal shootings by police remain relatively unchanged after two years. The Washington Post.
Retrieved from https://www.washingtonpost.com/investigations/fatal-shootings-by-police-remain-relativelyunchanged-after-two-years/2016/12/30/fc807596-c3ca-11e6-9578-0054287507db_story.html
16. Dorell, O. (2016, June 29). 2016 already marred by nearly daily terror attacks. USA Today. Retrieved from
https://www.usatoday.com/story/news/world/2016/06/29/major-terrorist-attacks-year/86492692
17. Parvini, S., Branson-Potts, H., & Esquivel, P. (2017, February 1). For victims of San Bernardino terrorist attack,
conflicting views about Trump policy in their name. Los Angeles Times. Retrieved from
http://www.latimes.com/local/lanow/la-me-san-bernardino-trump-20170131-story.html
18. Ellis, R., Fantz, A., Karimi, F., & McLaughlin, E. (2016, June 13). Orlando shooting: 49 killed, shooter pledged ISIS
allegiance. CNN. Retrieved from https://www.cnn.com/2016/06/12/us/orlando-nightclub-shooting/index.html
19. Branch, J., Kovaleski, S, & Tavernise, S. (2017, October 4). Stephen Paddock chased gambling’s payouts and perks.
The New York Times. Retrieved from https://www.nytimes.com/2017/10/04/us/stephen-paddock-gambling.html. See
also: AP. (2018, January 19). The latest: Timeline offers look at Vegas shooter’s moves. U.S. News & World Report.
Retrieved from: https://www.usnews.com/news/us/articles/2018-01-19/the-latest-no-motive-uncovered-for-lasvegas-mass-shooting
20. Coddle [Def. 2]. (n.d.). Merriam-Webster Dictionary (11th ed.). Retrieved from https://www.merriamwebster.com/dictionary/coddling
21. You can find accessible, comprehensive data on these trends at the website humanprogress.org

Chapter 1: The Untruth of Fragility
What Doesn’t Kill You Makes You Weaker
1. The Book of Mencius, in Chan (1963), p. 78.
2. Hendrick, B. (2010, May 14). Peanut allergies in kids on the rise. WebMD. Retrieved from
http://www.webmd.com/allergies/news/20100514/peanut-allergies-in-kids-on-the-rise
3. Du Toit, Katz et al. (2008).
4. Christakis (2008).
5. Du Toit, Roberts et al. (2015).
6. LEAP Study Results. (2015). Retrieved from http://www.leapstudy.com/leap-study-results
7. LEAP Study Results. (2015); see n. 6.
8. Chan, S. (2001). Complex adaptive systems. Retrieved from
http://web.mit.edu/esd.83/www/notebook/Complex%20Adaptive%20Systems.pdf. See also: Holland (1992).
9. Okada, Kuhn, Feillet, & Bach (2010).
10. Gopnik, A. (2016, August 31). Should we let toddlers play with saws and knives? The Wall Street Journal. Retrieved
from http://www.wsj.com/articles/should-we-let-toddlers-play-with-saws-and-knives-1472654945
11. Taleb (2012), p. 5.
12. Taleb (2012), p. 3.

13. Child Trends Databank. (2016, November). Infant, child, and teen mortality. Retrieved from
https://www.childtrends.org/indicators/infant-child-and-teen-mortality
14. Gopnik (2016); see n. 10.
15. Office of Equity Concerns. (2014). Support resources for faculty. Oberlin College & Conservatory [via Wayback
Machine internet Archive]. Retrieved from http://web.archive.org/web/20131222174936 [inactive]
16. Haslam (2016).
17. American Psychiatric Association. (n.d.). DSM history. Retrieved from
https://www.psychiatry.org/psychiatrists/practice/dsm/history-of-the-dsm
18. Friedman, M. J. (2007, January 31). PTSD: National Center for PTSD. U.S. Department of Veterans Affairs.
Retrieved from https://www.ptsd.va.gov/professional/ptsd-overview/ptsd-overview.asp. See also: Haslam (2016), p.
6.
19. Bonanno, Westphal, & Mancini (2011).
20. “Most trauma survivors are highly resilient and develop appropriate coping strategies, including the use of social
supports, to deal with the aftermath and effects of trauma. Most recover with time, show minimal distress, and
function effectively across major life areas and developmental stages.” Center for Substance Abuse Treatment (U.S.).
(2014). Trauma-informed care in behavioral health services, chapter 3, Understanding the impact of trauma.
Rockville, MD: Substance Abuse and Mental Health Services Administration (U.S.). Retrieved from
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/books/NBK207191
21. Trauma. (n.d.). SAMHSA-HRSA Center for Integrated Health Solutions. Retrieved from
https://www.integration.samhsa.gov/clinical-practice/trauma. Note: This tautological definition of “trauma” uses the
reaction to the “experience” as the definition of whether trauma occurred.
22. This is particularly troubling, because if the effect is included in the definition of “trauma,” when a person
experiences what has come to be called “post-traumatic growth,” whatever happened will no longer be defined as
trauma, no matter how far outside the range of normal experience. This will eliminate the ability for people to
experience post-traumatic growth, because if they are not suffering, the original events will not be defined as
“traumatic.” See: Collier (2016).
23. Shulevitz, J. (2015, March 21). In college and hiding from scary ideas. The New York Times. Retrieved from
https://www.nytimes.com/2015/03/22/opinion/sunday/judith-shulevitz-hiding-from-scary-ideas.html
24. Rape culture. (n.d.). Oxford Living Dictionaries. Retrieved from
https://en.oxforddictionaries.com/definition/rape_culture
25. McElroy, W. (2015, September 7). Debate with Jessica Valenti on “rape culture.” Retrieved from
https://wendymcelroy.liberty.me/debate-with-jessica-valenti-on-rape-culture
26. Shulevitz (2015); see n. 23.
27. Around the same time, one student at Brown created a secret free speech Facebook group to engage in civil dialogue.
See: Morey, A. (2015, December 28). FIRE Q&A: Reason@Brown’s Christopher Robotham. FIRE. Retrieved from
https://www.thefire.org/fire-qa-reasonbrowns-christopher-robotham. See also: Nordlinger, J. (2015, November 30).
Underground at Brown. National Review. Retrieved from
http://www.nationalreview.com/article/427713/underground-brown-jay-nordlinger
28. This is a perfect example of what former Yale professor William Deresiewicz criticizes as the tendency for elite
liberal arts colleges to avoid complex and challenging conversations about issues in favor of dogmatic conversations
that create orthodox consensus. See: Deresiewicz, W. (2017, March 6). On political correctness. The American
Scholar. Retrieved from https://theamericanscholar.org/on-political-correctness
29. Shulevitz (2015); see n. 23.
30. For a summary of this work, see: Haidt (2006), chapter 7. See also: work by Lawrence Calhoun & Richard Tedeschi.
Posttraumatic Growth Research Group, UNC Charlotte. (n.d.). Retrieved from https://ptgi.uncc.edu
31. Foa & Kozak (1986).
32. McNally, R. (2016, September 13). If you need a trigger warning, you need PTSD. treatment. The New York Times.
Retrieved from https://www.nytimes.com/roomfordebate/2016/09/13/do-trigger-warnings-work/if-you-need-atrigger-warning-you-need-ptsd-treatment
33. R. Leahy (personal communication, December 29, 2017). See also: McNally (2016); see n. 32.
34. So said Aristotle in The Nicomachean Ethics. The only exception to this principle we can think of is wisdom.
35. Twenge (2017), p. 3.
36. Twenge (2017), p. 154.
37. For discussion and evidence about the changing dynamic around speech and censorship on college campuses, see
Stevens, S., & Haidt, J. (2018, April 11). The skeptics are wrong part 2: Speech culture on campus is changing.
Retrieved from https://heterodoxacademy.org/the-skeptics-are-wrong-part-2

Chapter 2: The Untruth of Emotional Reasoning
Always Trust Your Feelings
1. From the Enchiridion. Epictetus & Lebell (1st–2nd century/1995), p. 7.
2. Mascaro (1995), chapter 1, verse 1.
3. Shakespeare, W. Hamlet. II.ii, ll. 268–270.
4. Milton (1667/2017), bk. I, ll. 241–255.
5. Boethius (ca. 524 CE/2011). Note that the psychoanalyst Victor Frankl, reflecting on his years in a concentration
camp, reached the same conclusion: “Everything can be taken from a man but one thing: the last of the human
freedoms—to choose one’s attitude in any given set of circumstances, to choose one’s own way.” See: Frankl
(1959/2006), Part I, p. 66.
6. In his best-selling book Thinking Fast and Slow (Kahneman 2011), Nobel laureate psychologist Daniel Kahneman
refers to automatic processes as System 1, which is fast, and controlled processes as System 2, which is slow.
7. Thousands of studies and hundreds of meta-analyses have now examined the effectiveness of CBT for treating
depression and anxiety disorders. For a recent and accessible review of the literature, see: Hollon & DeRubeis (in
press). We can summarize a common view with this sentence from the website of the United Kingdom’s Royal
College of Psychiatrists: CBT “is one of the most effective treatments for conditions where anxiety or depression is
the main problem . . . [it is] the most effective psychological treatment for moderate and severe depression, [and] is
as effective as antidepressants for many types of depression.” Blenkiron, P. (2013, July). Cognitive behavioural
therapy. Royal College of Psychiatrists. Retrieved from
https://www.rcpsych.ac.uk/mentalhealthinformation/therapies/cognitivebehaviouraltherapy.aspx
8. “Cognitive therapy can be as efficacious as antidepressant medications . . . unlike medication, its benefits persist after
treatment ceases . . . cognitive therapy is at least as efficacious and quite possibly longer lasting than alternative
approaches [to Generalized Anxiety Disorder].” Hollon & DeRubeis (in press).
9. Blenkiron (2013); see n. 7. See also: CBT outcome studies. (2016, November 25). Academy of Cognitive Therapy.
Retrieved from http://www.academyofct.org/page/OutcomeStudies
10. We make no claim that CBT is more effective for all psychological disorders, but because it is so easy to do and it is
the most researched form of psychotherapy, it is often thought of as the gold standard to which other forms of
treatment, including drugs, should be compared. See: Butler, Chapman, Forman, & Beck (2006).
11. Nine common cognitive distortions from the list in Robert L. Leahy, Stephen J. F. Holland, & Lata K. McGinn’s
book Treatment Plans and Interventions for Depression and Anxiety Disorders, 2nd ed. (New York, NY: Guilford
Press, 2012).
12. For various definitions of “critical thinking,” see: Defining critical thinking. (n.d.). The Foundation for Critical
Thinking. Retrieved from https://www.criticalthinking.org/pages/defining-critical-thinking/766
13. Sue et al. (2007). The definition quoted is on p. 271. The term was first coined and discussed by Pierce (1970).
14. Unconscious or implicit associations are very real, although the relationships of such associations to discriminatory
behavior are complex and are currently being debated by social psychologists. See: Rubinstein, Jussim, & Stevens
(2018). For a defense of the role of implicit bias in causing discriminatory behavior, see: Greenwald, Banaji, & Nosek
(2015).
15. Even when a person interacts with a bigot, CBT can help that person reduce the amount and likelihood of suffering.
16. Hamid, S. (2018, February 17). Bari Weiss, outrage mobs, and identity politics. The Atlantic. Retrieved from
https://www.theatlantic.com/politics/archive/2018/02/bari-weiss-immigrants/553550
17. Miller, G. (2017, July 18). The neurodiversity case for free speech. Quillette. Retrieved from
http://quillette.com/2017/07/18/neurodiversity-case-free-speech
18. FIRE. (2017). Bias Response Team Report. [Blog post]. Retrieved from https://www.thefire.org/first-amendmentlibrary/special-collections/fire-guides/report-on-bias-reporting-systems-2017
19. For a review and critique of research on microaggressions, see Lilienfeld (2017).
20. For example, Heider (1958). One exception to this principle is very young children, who will often judge a wellintentioned act to be wrong if it accidentally causes harm. See: Piaget (1932/1965).
21. Utt, J. (2013, July 30). Intent vs. impact: Why your intentions don’t really matter. Everyday Feminism. Retrieved
from https://everydayfeminism.com/2013/07/intentions-dont-really-matter
22. Karith created and teaches the C.A.R.E. model (Conscious Empathy, Active Listening, Responsible Reaction, and
Environmental Awareness) in her workshops and presentations.
23. K. Foster (personal communication, February 17, 2018).
24. Zimmerman, J. (2016, June 16). Two kinds of PC. Inside Higher Ed. Retrieved from https://www.insidehighered.com/views/2016/06/16/examination-two-kinds-political-correctness-essay [inactive]
25. Rotter (1966).

26. For reviews, see Cobb-Clark (2015).
27. Buddelmeyer & Powdthavee (2015).
28. See, for example, the shout-downs of Charles Murray at Middlebury College and Heather Mac Donald at Claremont
McKenna College, which we’ll describe in chapter 4. FIRE maintains a database of disinvitation attempts:
Disinvitation Database. (n.d.). Retrieved from https://www.thefire.org/resources/disinvitation-database
29. Bauer-Wolf, J. (2017, October 6). Free speech advocate silenced. Inside Higher Ed. Retrieved from
https://www.insidehighered.com/news/2017/10/06/william-mary-students-who-shut-down-aclu-event-brokeconduct-code
30. About a third of the cases in which the push came from the right originated off campus, and half these cases
involved religious organizations objecting to someone speaking about issues related to abortion and contraception.
Of disinvitation efforts from the left, fewer than 5% were initiated from off-campus sources. To examine the data
yourself, visit https://www.thefire.org/resources/disinvitation-database
31. Yiannopoulos, M. (2016, August 20). Trolls will save the world. Breitbart. Retrieved from
http://www.breitbart.com/milo/2016/08/20/trolls-will-save-world
32. Stevens, S. (2017, February 7). Campus speaker disinvitations: Recent trends (Part 2 of 2) [Blog post]. Retrieved
from https://heterodoxacademy.org/2017/02/07/campus-speaker-disinvitations-recent-trends-part-2-of-2
33. For more analysis of these trends, including a response to critics who claim that surveys show no recent changes in
attitudes toward speech on campus, see Stevens, S., & Haidt, J. (2018, April 11). The skeptics are wrong part 2:
Speech culture on campus is changing. Retrieved from https://heterodoxacademy.org/the-skeptics-are-wrong-part-2
34. Naughton, K. (2017, October). Speaking freely—What students think about expression at American colleges. FIRE.
Retrieved from https://www.thefire.org/publications/student-attitudes-free-speech-survey
35. Socrates’ fellow citizens ultimately accused him of impiety and of corrupting the youth of Athens. He was convicted
by a jury and forced to drink poison. We’d like to think we are better able to tolerate “impiety” today.
36. Venker, S. (2015, October 20). Williams College’s “Uncomfortable Learning” speaker series dropped me. Why?
FIRE. Retrieved from http://www.foxnews.com/opinion/2015/10/20/williams-college-dropped-me-from-itsuncomfortable-learning-speaker-series-why.html
37. Paris, F. (2015, October 21). Organizers cancel Venker lecture. The Williams Record. Retrieved from
http://williamsrecord.com/2015/10/21/organizers-cancel-venker-lecture [inactive]
38. Wood, Z. (2015, October 18). Breaking through a ring of motivated ignorance. Williams Alternative. Retrieved from
http://williamsalternative.com/2015/10/breaking-through-a-ring-of-motivated-ignorance-zach-wood. See also
Wood’s 2018 TED Talk: Why it’s worth listening to people you disagree with. Retrieved from
http://www.ted.com/talks/zachary_r_wood_why_it_s_worth_listening_to_people_we_disagree_with
39. Wood (2015); see n. 38.
40. Gray, (2012), p. 86.
41. Falk, A. (2016, February 18). John Derbyshire’s scheduled appearance at Williams. Williams College Office of the
President. Retrieved from https://president.williams.edu/letters-from-the-president/john-derbyshires-scheduledappearance-at-williams

Chapter 3: The Untruth of Us Versus Them
Life Is a Battle Between Good People and Evil People
1. Sacks (2015), p. 51.
2. To protect her privacy, we have changed the student’s name.
3. Adapted from the definition here: Cisnormativity. (2017). The Queer Dictionary. Retrieved from
http://queerdictionary.blogspot.com/2014/09/definition-of-cisnormativity.html
4. Other than changing the name of the student and swapping in “[dean of students]” for the original “DOS,” this was
the exact text of the email.
5. You can see her explanation at minute 48 of this video: The CMC Forum (Producer). (2015, November 11). CMCers
of color lead protest of lack of support from administration [Video file]. Retrieved from https://youtu.be/OlB7VylZZ8?t=48m1s
6. Miller, S. (2015, November 18). VIDEO: CMCers of color lead protest of dean of students, administration. The
Forum. Retrieved from http://cmcforum.com/news/11112015-video-cmcers-of-color-protest-dean-of-studentsadministration
7. Tidmarsh, K. (2015, November 11). CMC students of color protest for institutional support, call for dean of students
to resign. The Student Life. Retrieved from http://tsl.news/news/5265

8. See the full video at: The CMC Forum (Producer). (2015, November 11). CMCers of color lead protest of lack of
support from administration [Video file]. Retrieved from https://youtu.be/OlB7Vy-lZZ8?t=3s
9. Tidmarsh, K. (2015, November 11); see n. 7.
10. See that moment at time 41:33 of the video linked in n. 5.
11. We were not able to find any public statement of support, and when we emailed Spellman to ask if she knew of such
a statement, she told us that she did not. Spellman, M. (personal communication, February 8, 2018).
12. Watanabe, T., & Rivera, C. (2015, November 13). Amid racial bias protests, Claremont McKenna dean resigns. Los
Angeles Times. Retrieved from http://www.latimes.com/local/lanow/la-me-ln-claremont-marches-20151112story.html
13. FIRE (2015, October 30). Email from Erika Christakis: “Dressing yourselves,” email to Silliman College (Yale)
students on Halloween costumes [Blog post]. Retrieved from https://www.thefire.org/email-from-erika-christakisdressing-yourselves-email-to-silliman-college-yale-students-on-halloween-costumes
14. FIRE. (2015, October 27). Email from the Intercultural Affairs Committee [Blog post]. Retrieved from
https://www.thefire.org/email-from-intercultural-affairs. Note that the Intercultural Affairs Committee is part of the
dean’s office.
15. Christakis, E. (2016, October 28). My Halloween email led to a campus firestorm—and a troubling lesson about selfcensorship. The Washington Post. Retrieved from https://www.washingtonpost.com/opinions/my-halloween-emailled-to-a-campus-firestorm--and-a-troubling-lesson-about-self-censorship/2016/10/28/70e55 732-9b97-11e6-a0edab0774c1eaa5_story.html. For the email from Erika Chris-takis, see n. 13.
16. Wilson, R. (2015, October 31). Open letter to Associate Master Christakis. Down Magazine. Retrieved from
http://downatyale.com/post.php?id=430
17. By an extraordinary coincidence, Greg happened to be on the Yale campus that day and was present at the
confrontation. To watch the videos that Greg took of the event, see: Shibley, R. (2015, September 13). New video of
last year’s Yale halloween costume confrontation emerges [Blog post]. Retrieved from https://www.thefire.org/newvideo-of-last-years-yale-halloween-costume-confrontation-emerges
18. Kirchick, J. (2016, September 12). New videos show how Yale betrayed itself by favoring cry-bullies. Tablet
Magazine. Retrieved from http://www.tabletmag.com/jewish-news-and-politics/213212/yale-favoring-cry-bullies
19. FIRE (Producer). (2015, November 7). Yale University students protest Halloween costume email (VIDEO 3).
Retrieved from https://youtu.be/9IEFD_JVYd0?t=1m17s
20. On the question of whether the master creates an intellectual space or a home: the master plays a mixed role, partly
residential and quasi-parental, partly intellectual. Jon graduated from Yale in 1985 and went to many academic
events and talks in the home of the master of Davenport College.
21. President and Yale College dean underscore commitment to a “better Yale.” (2015, November 6). YaleNews.
Retrieved from https://news.yale.edu/2015/11/06/president-and-yale-college-dean-underscore-commitment-betteryale
22. Stanley-Becker, I. (2015, November 13). Minority students at Yale give list of demands to university president. The
Washington Post. Retrieved from https://www.washingtonpost.com/news/grade-point/wp/2015/11/13/minoritystudents-at-yale-give-list-of-demands-to-university-president. See also: Next Yale. (2015, November 18). Next Yale
demands for the Administration. Retrieved from https://www.thefire.org/next-yale-demands-for-the-administration
23. Schick, F. (2015, December 7). Erika Christakis leaves teaching role. Yale Daily News. Retrieved from
https://yaledailynews.com/blog/2015/12/07/erika-christakis-to-end-teaching
24. Physics professor Douglas Stone spearheaded a public letter defending the Christakises that was signed over the
course of many weeks by ninety professors, mostly in the sciences and the medical school. See also: Christakis, E.
(2016, October 28). My Halloween email led to a campus firestorm—and a troubling lesson about self-censorship.
The Washington Post. Retrieved from https://www.washingtonpost.com/opinions/my-halloween-email-led-to-acampus-firestorm—and-a-troubling-lesson-about-self-censorship/2016/10/28/70e55732-9b97-11e6-a0edab0774c1eaa5_story.html
25. For Claremont McKenna, see Watanabe, T., & Rivera, C. (2015, November 13). Amid racial protests, Claremont
McKenna dean resigns. Los Angeles Times. Retrieved from http://www.latimes.com/local/lanow/la-me-ln-claremontmarches-20151112-story.html. For Yale, see Stanley-Becker, I. (2015, November 5). A confrontation over race at
Yale: Hundreds of students demand answers from the school’s first black dean. The Washington Post. Retrieved from
https://www.washingtonpost.com/news/grade-point/wp/2015/11/05/a-confrontation-over-race-at-yale-hundredsof-students-demand-answers-from-the-schools-first-black-dean
26. Tajfel (1970).
27. See overall review in Berreby (2005); see Hogg (2016) for a review of social identity theory; see Cikara & Van Bavel
(2014) for a review of neuroscience work in this area.

28. Vaughn, Savjani, Cohen, & Eagleman (manuscript under review). For more on this study, see: iqsquared (Producer).
(2012, June 22). David Eagleman: What makes us empathetic? IQ2 Talks [Video file]. Retrieved from
https://youtu.be/TDjWryXdVd0?t=7m42s
29. For a review of this literature, including the debate over whether “group selection” played a role in the human story,
over and above individual selection, see Haidt (2012), chapter 9. For a contrary view, see: Pinker, S. (2012, June 18).
The false allure of group selection. Edge. Retrieved from https://www.edge.org/conversation/steven_pinker-the-falseallure-of-group-selection
30. Chapter 10 of The Righteous Mind (Haidt, 2012) describes the “hive switch,” a psychological reflex in which selfinterest is turned off and group interest becomes paramount; people lose themselves in the group. People can
become tribal without the hive switch getting activated. The hive response is what happens when tribalism is
activated intensely, particularly through highly engaging multisensory rituals.
31. This is the third of three basic principles in Jon’s book The Righteous Mind.
32. We are using “tribalism” in a way that overstates the degree of closure and conflict of real tribes. For a description of
how real tribes often draw from one another’s practices and form alliances to reduce conflict, see Rosen, L. (2018,
January 16). A liberal defense of tribalism. Foreign Policy. Retrieved from http://foreignpolicy.com/2018/01/16/aliberal-defense-of-tribalism-american-politics
33. To learn more about how the campus trends described in this book are now influencing high schools, and to find
resources for high school students who want to find a more open and intellectually diverse culture in college, please
visit heterodoxacademy.org/highschool
34. Rauch, J. (2017, November 9). Speaking as a . . . The New York Review of Books. Retrieved from
http://www.nybooks.com/articles/2017/11/09/mark-lilla-liberal-speaking
35. King (1963/1981), p. 52.
36. King (1963/1981), p. 51.
37. Mascaro (1995), p. 2.
38. Bellah (1967).
39. King, M. L. (1963, August 28). “I have a dream . . .” Retrieved from
https://www.archives.gov/files/press/exhibits/dream-speech.pdf
40. King (1963); see n. 38. You can listen to an audio recording of the speech here:
http://www.americanrhetoric.com/speeches/mlkihaveadream.htm
41. Most whites at the time did not see it this way. In a Harris poll a few months before he was assassinated, nearly 75%
of Americans expressed disapproval of him, although he had been substantially more popular at the time of his 1963
I Have a Dream speech, and he is wildly popular now, with approval levels above 90%. It took time, but the ideas in
his 1963 speech changed the country. See Cobb, J. C. (2018, April 4). When Martin Luther King Jr. was killed, he was
less popular than Donald Trump is today. USA Today. Retrieved from
https://www.usatoday.com/story/opinion/2018/04/04/martin-luther-king-jr-50-years-as sassination-donald-trumpdisapproval-column/482242002
42. Pauli Murray College. (n.d.). About Pauli Murray. Retrieved from https://paulimurray.yalecollege.yale.edu/subpage2
43. Murray (1945), p. 24.
44. MainersUnited (Producer). (2012, November 2). Yes on 1: Mainers United for Marriage—Will & Arlene Brewster
[Video file]. Retrieved from https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=rizfhtN6UVc
45. Chapters 2, 3, and 4 of The Righteous Mind (Haidt, 2012) provide a literature review in support of this claim.
46. We have quoted the version given in Haji (2011), p. 185.
47. The essay was removed, but screen shots of it can be found here: Coyne, J. (n.d.). Texas college newspaper publishes
op-ed calling white DNA an “abomination” [Blog post]. Retrieved from
https://whyevolutionistrue.wordpress.com/2017/11/30/texas-college-newspaper-publishes-op-ed-calling-white-dnaan-abomination. (The first line is actually a variant of a line from the Bhagavad Gita: “Now I am become white,
destroyer of worlds.”)
48. Cohn, A. (2017, December 13). Students, faculty, and administrators launch attack on Texas State University
newspaper. FIRE. Retrieved from https://www.thefire.org/students-faculty-and-administrators-launch-attack-ontexas-state-university-newspaper
49. Defund the racist University Star. (2017, November 30). Retrieved from https://www.change.org/p/bobcat-libertycouncil-defund-the-racist-star
50. Cervantes, D. (2017, November 28). Editor’s note. The University Star. Retrieved from
https://star.txstate.edu/2017/11/28/letter-from-the-editor-3
51. More details are found in Cohn (2017); see n. 48. See also: Trauth, D. (2017, November 28). Message from the
president regarding University Star column. Texas State University–Office of Media Relations. Retrieved from

http://www.txstate.edu/news/news_releases/news_archive/2017/November-2017/Statement112917.html
52. As Marcuse explained in a postscript to the essay, added in 1968: “The Left has no equal voice, no equal access to the
mass media and their public facilities—not because a conspiracy excludes it, but because, in good old capitalist
fashion, it does not have the required purchasing power.” Wolff, Moore, & Marcuse (1965/1969), p. 119.
53. Marcuse referred to “official tolerance granted to the Right as well as to the Left, to movements of aggression as well
as to movements of peace, to the party of hate as well as to that of humanity.” Wolff, Moore, & Marcuse (1965/1969),
p. 85.
54. Wolff, Moore, & Marcuse (1965/1969), p. 109.
55. Wolff, Moore, & Marcuse (1965/1969), pp. 100–101.
56. Wolff, Moore, & Marcuse (1965/1969), p. 110.
57. Columbia Law School. (2011, October 12). Center for Intersectionality and Social Policy Studies established.
Retrieved from http://www.law.columbia.edu/media_inquiries/news_events/2011/october2011/Intersectionality
58. Crenshaw (1989).
59. Degraffenreid v. General Motors Assembly Division, 413 F. Supp. 142 (E.D. Mo. 1976).
60. Collins & Bilge (2016), p. 7.
61. TED (Producer). (2016, October). The urgency of intersectionality [Video file]. Retrieved from
https://www.ted.com/talks/kimberle_crenshaw_the_urgency_of_intersectionality
62. Morgan (1996), p. 107.
63. Morgan (1996), p. 106.
64. Morgan (1996), p. 106.
65. A video of the encounter is embedded in the documentary Silence U, which is available here (the scene begins at
time 7:53): We the Internet (Producer). (2016, July 14). Silence U: Is the university killing free speech and open
debate? We the Internet Documentary [Video file]. Retrieved from https://youtu.be/x5u aVFfX3AQ?t=7m55s
66. TED (2016); see n. 61.
67. For example, Creighton University posts on its website an exercise that is “designed to bring a group to certain
conclusions regarding the concept of privilege and disadvantage.” Based on various questions, people either step
forward or step backward. It begins: “Few White people in the history of the U.S. have ever been convicted and
executed for killing a person of color. All White persons take a step forward.” Next: “The high school dropout rate
for Latinos, Native Americans and African Americans is over 55%. Latinos, African Americans, and Native
Americans take one step back.” At the end of the exercise, whoever is at the front of the room has the most
“privilege,” and whoever is at the back has the least. The instructor then says, “Notice what groups of people are in
the front and what groups of people are in the back.” See: Privilege exercise (race focus). (n.d.). Retrieved from
https://people.creighton.edu/~idc24708/Genes/Diversity/Privilege%20Exercise.htm
68. We do not know if ideas related to intersectionality were included in CMC’s orientation process; the ideas may have
come from their courses or from other students. But intersectional language is common in the video of the
confrontation with Spellman: The CMC Forum (Producer) (2015, November 11). CMCers of color lead protest of
lack of support from administration [Video file]. Retrieved from https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=OlB7Vy-lZZ8
69. Friedersdorf, C. (2017, May 8). The destructiveness of call-out culture on campus. The Atlantic. Retrieved from
https://www.theatlantic.com/politics/archive/2017/05/call-out-culture-is-stressing-out-college-students/524679
70. Barrett, K. (2016, September 22). Walking on eggshells—How political correctness is changing the campus dynamic.
The Sophian. Retrieved from http://www.thesmithsophian.com/walking-on-eggshells-how-political-correctness-ischanging-the-campus-dynamic
71. For extensive analyses of survey data showing that the campus dynamic related to speech has changed in the last few
years, see Stevens, S., & Haidt, J. (2018, April 11), The skeptics are wrong part 2: Speech culture on campus is
changing. Retrieved from https://heterodoxacademy.org/the-skeptics-are-wrong-part-2
72. Friedersdorf (2017); see n. 69.
73. Zimbardo (2007).
74. Eady, T. (2014, November 24). “Everything is problematic”: My journey into the centre of a dark political world, and
how I escaped. The McGill Daily. Retrieved from https://www.mcgilldaily.com/2014/11/everything-problematic
75. For an extended argument that political activity generally interferes with a scholar’s ability to find the truth, see: Van
der Vossen (2014).
76. Alexander (2010).
77. Balko (2013).
78. Silverglate (2009).
79. Right on Crime. (n.d.). The conservative case for reform. Retrieved from http://rightoncrime.com/the-conservativecase-for-reform

80. Hirsh, M. (2015, March/April). Charles Koch, liberal crusader? Politico. Retrieved from
https://www.politico.com/magazine/story/2015/03/charles-koch-overcriminalization-115512
81. Lilla (2017), p. 9.
82. For an edited version of the interaction in an extraordinary video, see: Now This Politics (Producer). (2017,
September 8). This unexpected moment happened when Black Lives Matter activists were invited on stage at a proTrump rally [Video file]. Retrieved from https://www.facebook.com/NowThisNews/videos/1709220972442719
83. Hains, T. (2017, September 20). “Black Lives Matter” leader wins over Trump supporters: “If we really want America
great, we do it together.” Real Clear Politics. Retrieved from
https://www.realclearpolitics.com/video/2017/09/20/black_lives_matter_leader_wins_over_trump_supporters_if_we_really_want_amer

Chapter 4: Intimidation and Violence
1. Mandela (2003), p. 545.
2. Warzel, C. (2016, July 19). Twitter permanently suspends Conservative writer Milo Yiannopoulos. BuzzFeed.
Retrieved from https://www.buzzfeed.com/charliewarzel/twitter-just-permanently-suspended-conservative-writermilo
3. In the words of Milo Yiannopoulos, “Trolling is very important. . . . I like to think of myself as a virtuous troll, you
know? I’m doing God’s work.” Moran, T., Taguchi, E., & Pedersen, C. (2016, September 1). Leslie Jones’ Twitter
Troll Has No Regrets Over Attacking the ‘Ghostbusters’ Actress. ABC News. Retrieved from
https://abcnews.go.com/Entertainment/leslie-jones-twitter-troll-regrets-attacking-ghostbusters-actress/story?
id=41808886. See also Yiannopoulos’ statement: “A real troll, of course, does aim to provoke. They do aim to cause
mild rage. They aim to prank, to goad, to wind people up. . . . So trolls, my message to you today is: once the election
is over, get off your laptops and head down to your local campus.” Yiannopoulos, M. (2016, August 20). Trolls will
save the world. Breitbart. Retrieved from http://www.breitbart.com/milo/2016/08/20/trolls-will-save-world
4. Scott Crow, former Antifa organizer, explains: “The idea in Antifa is that we go where they [right-wingers] go. That
hate speech is not free speech. That if you are endangering people with what you say and the actions that are behind
them, then you do not have the right to do that. And so we go to cause conflict, to shut them down where they are.”
See Suerth, J. (2017, August 17). What is Antifa? CNN. Retrieved from https://www.cnn.com/2017/08/14/us/what-isantifa-trnd/index.html
5. Kell, G. (2017, February 2). Campus investigates, assesses damage from Feb. 1 violence. Berkeley News. Retrieved
from http://news.berkeley.edu/2017/02/02/campus-investigates-assesses-damage-from-feb-1-violence
6. Lochner, T. (2017, February 1). UC Berkeley: Protesters shut down Milo Yiannopoulos event, clash with police. East
Bay Times. Retrieved from http://www.eastbaytimes.com/2017/02/01/uc-berkeley-cancels-breitbart-provocateurmilo-yiannopoulos-event
7. Park, M., & Lah, K. (2017, February 2). Berkeley protests of Yiannopoulos caused $100,000 in damage.CNN.
Retrieved from http://www.cnn.com/2017/02/01/us/milo-yiannopoulos-berkeley/index.html
8. Riot forces cancellation of Yiannopoulos talk at UC Berkeley. (2017, February 1). CBS SF Bay Area. Retrieved from
http://sanfrancisco.cbslocal.com/2017/02/01/berkeley-braces-for-protests-at-yiannopoulos-talk
9. Park & Lah (2017); see n. 7.
10. Arnold, C. (2017, February 1). Violence and chaos erupt at UC–Berkeley in protest against Milo Yiannopoulos. USA
Today College. Retrieved from http://college.usatoday.com/2017/02/01/violence-and-chaos-erupt-at-uc-berkeley-inprotest-against-milo-yiannopoulos
11. Riot forces cancellation (2017); see n. 8.
12. Rioters break windows, set fire to force cancellation of Breitbart editor’s UC–Berkeley talk. (2017, February 1). Fox
News. Retrieved from http://www.foxnews.com/us/2017/02/01/rioters-break-windows-set-fire-to-force-cancellationbreitbart-editors-uc-berkeley-talk.html
13. RTQuestionsMore (Producer). (2017, February 1). Kiara Robles talks to RT International [Video file]. Retrieved
from https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=SUQdlc8Gc-g&feature=youtu.be
14. Park & Lah (2017); see n. 7.
15. CNBC with Reuters and AP. (2017, February 1). Trump threatens UC Berkeley with funds cut after Breitbart
editor’s speech is canceled following riot. CNBC. Retrieved from https://www.cnbc.com/2017/02/01/uc-berkeley-onlockdown-amid-protest-over-milo-yiannopoulos.html
16. “The demonstrators caused an estimated $100,000 in damage on campus, the university said, and an additional
$400,000 to $500,000 elsewhere, according to Downtown Berkeley Association CEO John Caner.” Kutner, M. (2017,
February 1). Inside the black bloc protest strategy that shut down Berkeley. Newsweek. Retrieved from
http://www.newsweek.com/2017/02/24/berkeley-protest-milo-yiannopoulos-black-bloc-556264.html

17. Freedman, W. (2017, February 1). VIDEO: Trump supporter pepper sprayed at Milo protest. ABC 7 News. Retrieved
from http://abc7news.com/news/video-trump-supporter-pepper-sprayed-at-milo-protest/1733004
18. Mackey, R. (2017, February 4). Amid the chaos in Berkeley, a grinning face, covered in blood. The Intercept.
Retrieved from https://theintercept.com/2017/02/04/amid-chaos-berkeley-grinning-face-covered-blood
19. Freedman (2017); see n. 17.
20. K. Redelsheimer & J. Jennings (personal communication, March 1, 2017). See also: Fabian, P. (Producer).(2017,
February 2). Protestors beating people at Milo Yiannopoulos event @ U.C. Berkeley [Video file]. Retrieved from
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=GSMKGRyWKas
21. K. Redelsheimer (personal communication, March 1, 2017).
22. Gale, J. (2017, February). EXCLUSIVE FOOTAGE: Anarchists smash windows and riot at UC Berkeley after Milo
Yiannopoulos’s talk is canceled. The Tab. Retrieved from http://thetab.com/us/uc-berkeley/2017/02/02/exclusivefootage-anarchist-group-smashes-windows-sets-fire-sproul-riots-uc-berkeley-milo-yiannopouloss-talk-cancelled3244
23. P. Jandhyala (personal communication, July 11, 2017).
24. UC Berkeley Campus Police tweeted: @UCBerkeley Milo event cancelled. Shelter in place if on campus. All campus
buildings on lockdown. #miloatcal. Retrieved from https://twitter.com/ucpd_cal/status/826978649341440000?
lang=en
25. Riot forces cancellation (2017); see n. 8.
26. Zoppo, A., Proença Santos, A., & Hudgins, J. (2017, February 14). Here’s the full list of Donald Trump’s executive
orders. NBC News. Retrieved from https://www.nbcnews.com/politics/white-house/here-s-full-list-donald-trump-sexecutive-orders-n720796
27. Helsel, P. (2017, February 2). Protests, violence prompt UC Berkeley to cancel Milo Yiannopoulos event. NBC News.
Retrieved from https://www.nbcnews.com/news/us-news/protests-violence-prompts-uc-berkeley-cancel-miloyiannopoulos-event-n715711
28. Lawrence, N. (2017, February 7). Black bloc did what campus should have. The Daily Californian. Retrieved from
http://www.dailycal.org/2017/02/07/black-bloc-campus. See also a similar claim: Meagley, D. (2017, February 7).
Condemning protesters same as condoning hate speech. The Daily Californian. Retrieved from
http://www.dailycal.org/2017/02/07/condemning-protesters-condoning-hate-speech
29. When we contacted the UC Berkeley Office of Public Affairs, it refused to disclose whether any students had been
disciplined by the university in connection with the protests, citing federal privacy laws. It later clarified that, in the
month of February, two students were arrested: one for vandalism and one for failure to disperse. As far as we can
tell, no students were punished by the university in any way, so there was no punishment that would act as a
deterrent for future violent protests.
30. Bodley, M. (2017, February 2). At Berkeley Yiannopoulos protest, $100,000 in damage, 1 arrest. SFGate. Retrieved
from http://www.sfgate.com/crime/article/At-Berkeley-Yiannopoulos-protest-100-000-in-10905217.php. See also:
Berkeley free speech protests: Arrests, injuries, damages since February. (2017, April 25). Fox News. Retrieved from
http://www.foxnews.com/politics/2017/04/25/berkeley-free-speech-protests-arrests-injuries-damages-sincefebruary.html
31. In 2016, at California State University, Los Angeles, the university president canceled a speech about diversity by
conservative Ben Shapiro, requiring that, instead, he “appear as part of a group of speakers with differing viewpoints
on diversity” (something that had not been required of any other recent speakers). Eventually, the president relented,
but at the event, students locked arms to prevent people from getting in. Some who tried to enter were pushed to the
ground. After UC Berkeley failed to prevent violence on campus in February 2017, and Ben Shapiro was scheduled to
speak there later in the year, threats of violence in response to his presence required approximately $600,000 of
security. At least nine people were arrested, three of them reportedly for “banned weapons” (including an oversized
cardboard sign), but otherwise Shapiro spoke without incident. (In 2016, Shapiro had spoken at Berkeley without
significant protest.) See: Logue, J. (2016, February 24). Another Speaker Blocked. Inside Higher Ed. Retrieved from
https://www.insidehighered.com/news/2016/02/24/cal-state-los-angeles-cancels-conservative-speakers-appearance.
See also: Steinbaugh, A. (2016, February 26). CSU Los Angeles President Fails to Prevent Shapiro Talk, But
Protesters Try Their Hardest Anyway. FIRE. Retrieved from https://www.thefire.org/csu-los-angeles-president-failsto-prevent-shapiro-talk-but-protesters-try-their-hardest-anyway. See also: Gomez, M. (2017, September 15). Nine
people arrested at Ben Shapiro event at UC Berkeley. The Mercury News. Retrieved from
https://www.mercurynews.com/2017/09/15/nine-people-arrested-at-ben-shapiro-event-at-uc-berkeley. See also:
Alliance Defending Freedom. (2017, February 28). Cal State L.A. agrees to drop discriminatory speech policies,
settles lawsuit. Retrieved from https://adflegal.org/detailspages/press-release-details/cal-state-l.a.-agrees-to-dropdiscriminatory-speech-policies-settles-lawsuit. See also: UC Berkeley declares itself unsafe for Ann Coulter. (2017,
April 20). The Atlantic. Retrieved from https://www.theatlantic.com/politics/archive/2017/04/uc-berkeley-declares-

itself-unsafe-for-ann-coulter/523668. See also: Fehely, D. (2017, April 11). Conservative writer David Horowitz’s talk
at UC Berkeley cancelled. CBS SF Bay Area. Retrieved from http://sanfrancisco.cbslocal.com/2017/04/11/ucberkeley-presses-campus-republicans-to-cancel-another-conservative-speaker. See also: McPhate, M. (2017,
September 15). California today: Price tag to protect speech at Berkeley: $600,000. The New York Times. Retrieved
from https://www.nytimes.com/2017/09/15/us/california-today-price-tag-to-protect-speech-at-berkeley600000.html
32. Cohen, R. (2017, February 7). What might Mario Savio have said about the Milo protest at Berkeley? The Nation.
Retrieved from https://www.thenation.com/article/what-might-mario-savio-have-said-about-the-milo-protest-atberkeley
33. Ashenmiller, J. (2013). Mario Savio. Encyclopaedia Britannica Online. Retrieved from
https://www.britannica.com/biography/Mario-Savio
34. Senju, H. (2017, February 7). Violence as self-defense. The Daily Californian. Retrieved from
http://www.dailycal.org/2017/02/07/violence-self-defense
35. Meagley, D. (2017, February 7). Condemning protesters same as condoning hate speech. The Daily Californian.
Retrieved from http://www.dailycal.org/2017/02/07/condemning-protesters-condoning-hate-speech
36. Dang, N. (2017, February 7). Check your privilege when speaking of protests. The Daily Californian. Retrieved from
http://www.dailycal.org/2017/02/07/check-privilege-speaking-protests
37. Overpass Light Brigade. (2016, December 14). Hate’s insidious face: UW–Milwaukee and the “alt-right.” Retrieved
from http://overpasslightbrigade.org/hates-insidious-face-uw-milwaukee-and-the-alt-right
38. Lawrence (2017); see n. 28.
39. Villasenor, J. (2017, September 18). Views among college students regarding the First Amendment: Results from a
new survey. Retrieved from https://www.brookings.edu/blog/fixgov/2017/09/18/views-among-college-studentsregarding-the-first-amendment-results-from-a-new-survey. For criticism, see: Beckett, L. (2017, September 22).
“Junk science”: Experts cast doubt on widely cited college free speech survey. The Guardian. Retrieved from
https://www.theguardian.com/us-news/2017/sep/22/college-free-speech-violence-survey-junk-science. For
Villasenor’s response, see: Volokh, E. (2017, October 23). Freedom of expression on campus: An overview of some
recent surveys. The Washington Post. Retrieved from https://www.washingtonpost.com/news/volokhconspiracy/wp/2017/10/23/freedom-of-expression-on-campus-an-overview-of-some-recent-surveys
40. McLaughlin, J., & Schmidt, R. (2017, September 28). National Undergraduate Study. McLaughlin & Associates.
Retrieved from http://c8.nrostatic.com/sites/default/files/NATL%20Undergrad%209-2717%20Presentation%20%281%29.pdf
41. McWhorter, J. (2017, June 30). A Columbia professor’s critique of campus politics. The Atlantic. Retrieved from
https://www.theatlantic.com/politics/archive/2017/06/a-columbia-professors-critique-of-campus-politics/532335
42. “The idea is that if you go against a certain orthodoxy, then it isn’t only that you disagree, but that you also wish
white people were still in charge, that you want people of color to sit down and shut up.” See: McWhorter, J. (2016,
November 29). The difference between racial bias and white supremacy. Time. Retrieved from
http://time.com/4584161/white-supremacy
43. Stack, L. (2017, January 21). Attack on alt-right leader has internet asking: Is it O.K. to punch a Nazi? The New York
Times. Retrieved from https://www.nytimes.com/2017/01/21/us/politics/richard-spencer-punched-attack.html
44. In fact, we can make a prediction right now, while writing this book in 2017: Most of the negative reviews and
responses to this book will at some point note our race and gender and then directly assert or vaguely hint that we
are racists or sexists who are motivated primarily by the desire to preserve our privilege. We will then respond in the
spirit of Mark Lilla, the author of a critique of identity politics titled The Once and Future Liberal. Lilla, an avowed
liberal who wrote his book to help the Democrats start winning elections, responds to repeated name-calling by
saying, essentially, “That is a slur, not an argument. Make an argument and I’ll respond to it.” See, for example,
Goldstein, E. R. (2016, December 15). Campus identity politics is dooming liberal causes, a professor charges.
Chronicle of Higher Education. Retrieved from https://www.chronicle.com/article/Campus-Identity-PoliticsIs/238694
45. See, for example, the extraordinary success of J. D. Vance’s 2016 book Hillbilly Elegy and Arlie Russell Hochschild’s
2016 book Strangers in Their Own Land, which covered some similar ground.
46. Goodnow, N., & Pethokoukis, J. (2014, October 16). “The Bell Curve” 20 years later: A Q&A with Charles Murray.
American Enterprise Institute. Retrieved from http://www.aei.org/publication/bell-curve-20-years-later-qa-charlesmurray
47. Stanger, A. (2017, March 13). Understanding the angry mob at Middlebury that gave me a concussion. The New
York Times. Retrieved from https://www.nytimes.com/2017/03/13/opinion/understanding-the-angry-mob-thatgave-me-a-concussion.html

48. Independent, A. (2017, March 6). Middlebury College professor injured by protesters as she escorted controversial
speaker. Addison County Independent. Retrieved from http://www.addisonindependent.com/201703middleburycollege-professor-injured-protesters-she-escorted-controversial-speaker
49. Seelye, K. (2017, March 3). Protesters disrupt speech by “Bell Curve” author at Vermont College. The New York
Times. Retrieved from https://www.nytimes.com/2017/03/03/us/middlebury-college-charles-murray-bell-curveprotest.html
50. Independent (2017); see n. 48.
51. Murray, C. (2017, March 5). Reflections on the revolution in Middlebury. American Enterprise Institute. Retrieved
from http://www.aei.org/publication/reflections-on-the-revolution-in-middlebury
52. A. Stanger (personal communication, January 5, 2018). Note that the mob at Middlebury appears to have been
composed primarily of Middlebury students. In total, seventy-four students were disciplined: forty-eight were
sanctioned for events during the lecture, and twenty-six received some form of punishment for their participation in
the events after the main lecture disruption. See: Middlebury College completes sanctioning process for March 2
disruptions. (2017, May 23). Retrieved from http://www.middlebury.edu/newsroom/archive/2017news/node/547896
53. Stanger (2017); see n. 47.
54. Blume, H. (2017, April 9). Protesters disrupt talk by pro-police author, sparking free-speech debate at Claremont
McKenna College. Los Angeles Times. Retrieved from http://www.latimes.com/local/lanow/la-me-ln-macdonaldclaremont-speech-disrupted-20170408-story.html
55. Wootson, C. R., Jr. (2017, April 10). She wanted to criticize Black Lives Matter in a college speech. A protest shuts
her down. The Washington Post. Retrieved from https://www.washingtonpost.com/news/gradepoint/wp/2017/04/10/she-wanted-to-criticize-black-lives-matter-in-a-college-speech-a-protest-shut-her-down
56. Gross, N. (2016, September 30). Is there a “Ferguson Effect”? The New York Times. Retrieved from
https://www.nytimes.com/2016/10/02/opinion/sunday/is-there-a-ferguson-effect.html
57. ShutDown Anti-Black Fascists. (2017, April). SHUT DOWN anti-black fascist Heather Mac Donald [on Facebook]
[via archive.is webpage capture]. Retrieved from http://archive.fo/qpbtW [inactive]
58. When Jon visited Claremont McKenna College and gave a lecture in that same hall a year later, he learned from
faculty members that most of the protesters were not students at Claremont McKenna. The protesters were mostly
students at Pomona, Pitzer, and Scripps colleges, which are part of a consortium of five colleges whose students are
free to take classes and attend events at all five schools.
59. We, Few of the Black Students Here at Pomona College and the Claremont Colleges. (n.d.). Response to Pomona
College president David Oxtoby’s “Academic freedom and free speech” email of April 7, 2017. Archive of Pomona
Student Petition [Online document]. Retrieved from
https://docs.google.com/document/d/1_y6NmxoIBLcZJxYkN9V1YfaPYzVSMKCA17PgBzz10wk/edit
60. Harris, S. (2017, November 17). The spurious move to stifle speech on campus because it is “dehumanizing.”
Reason. Retrieved from http://reason.com/archives/2017/11/17/the-move-to-stifle-speech-on-campus-beca
61. Linguist John McWhorter says that terms such as these are “tools for injury, not just dictionary terms.” McWhorter,
J. (2016, November 29). The difference between racial bias and white supremacy. Time. Retrieved from
http://time.com/4584161/white-supremacy
62. Levenson, E., & Watts, A. (2017, October 13). Man beaten by white supremacists in Charlottesville is arrested. CNN.
Retrieved from http://www.cnn.com/2017/10/12/us/charlottesville-deandre-harris-arrest/index.html
63. Jackman, T. (2017, August 27). Three men charged in Charlottesville attacks on counterprotesters. The Washington
Post. Retrieved from https://www.washingtonpost.com/local/public-safety/three-men-charged-in-charlottesvilleattacks-on-counterprotesters/2017/08/27/f08930a4-8b5a-11e7-84c0-02cc069f2c37_story.html
64. Raymond, A. K. (2017, December 15). Man who rammed crowd at Charlottesville rally charged with first-degree
murder. New York. Retrieved from http://nymag.com/daily/intelligencer/2017/12/first-degree-murder-charge-forman-who-killed-heather-heyer.html
65. Caron, C. (2017, August 13). Heather Heyer, Charlottesville victim, is recalled as “a strong woman.” The New York
Times. Retrieved from https://www.nytimes.com/2017/08/13/us/heather-heyer-charlottesville-victim.html
66. Buncombe, A. (2017, December 15). Heather Heyer was buried in secret grave to protect it from neo-Nazis after
Charlottesville, reveals mother. The Independent. Retrieved from
http://www.independent.co.uk/news/world/americas/heather-heyer-grave-secret-hide-nazis-charlottesville-attackmother-reveals-a8113056.html
67. Nelson, L., & Swanson, K. (2017, August 15). Full transcript: Donald Trump’s press conference defending the
Charlottesville rally. Vox. Retrieved from https://www.vox.com/2017/8/15/16154028/trump-press-conferencetranscript-charlottesville

68. See Jon’s narration and interpretation of these events as an example of sacrilege and taboo violation: Haidt, J. (2017,
August 21). Trump breaks a taboo—and pays the price. The Atlantic. Retrieved from
https://www.theatlantic.com/politics/archive/2017/08/what-happens-when-the-president-commits-sacrilege/537519
69. See, for example, Phillip, A. (2017, August 17). Trump’s isolation grows in the wake of Charlottesvile. The
Washington Post. Retrieved from https://www.washingtonpost.com/politics/trumps-isolation-grows-in-the-wake-ofcharlottesville/2017/08/17/5bf83952-81ec-11e7-82a4-920da1aeb507_story.html
70. Some religious groups did just this, beginning on the day of the Charlottesville march, when a large coalition of
religious leaders locked arms, faced down the heavily armed racists, and sang about love. See: Jenkins, J. (2017,
August 16). Meet the clergy who stared down white supremacists in Charlottesville. Retrieved from
https://thinkprogress.org/clergy-in-charlottesville-e95752415c3e
71. Stevens, S. (2017, February 7). Campus speaker disinvitations: Recent trends (Part 2 of 2) [Blog post]. Retrieved
from https://heterodoxacademy.org/2017/02/07/campus-speaker-disinvitations-recent-trends-part-2-of-2
72. Bauer-Wolf, J. (2017, October 5). ACLU speaker shouted down at William & Mary. Inside Higher Ed. Retrieved
from https://www.insidehighered.com/quicktakes/2017/10/05/aclu-speaker-shouted-down-william-mary
73. Sullivan, S. (2017, October 19). Jane Doe wants an abortion but the government is hell bent on stopping her [Blog
post]. Retrieved from https://www.aclu.org/blog/immigrants-rights/immigrants-rights-and-detention/jane-doewants-abortion-government-hell-bent
74. Stern, M. J. (2014, September 3). Translating terrorism: Is publishing radical Islamic texts on the internet a crime?
Slate. Retrieved from
http://www.slate.com/articles/technology/future_tense/2014/09/mehanna_at_the_supreme_court_is_translating_jihad_texts_a_crime.h
75. Glasser, I. (2017, August 22). Thinking constitutionally about Charlottesville. HuffPost. Retrieved from
https://www.huffingtonpost.com/entry/aclu-charlottesville-free-speech_us_599c9bcae4b0d8dde9998c36
76. Truitt, F. (2017, October 2). Black Lives Matter protests American Civil Liberties Union. The Flat Hat. Retrieved
from http://flathatnews.com/2017/10/02/black-lives-matter-protests-american-civil-liberties-union [inactive]
77. Carey, E. (2017, October 6). President Schill speech suspended by protesting students. Daily Emerald. Retrieved
from https://www.dailyemerald.com/2017/10/06/president-schill-speech-suspended-protesting-students
78. Schill, M. (2017, October 3). The misguided student crusade against “fascism.” The New York Times. Retrieved from
https://www.nytimes.com/2017/10/23/opinion/fascism-protest-university-oregon.html
79. Leou, R. (2017, October 17). Panelists discuss constitutional rights in first Free Speech 101 event. Daily Bruin.
Retrieved from http://dailybruin.com/2017/10/17/panelists-discuss-constitutional-rights-in-first-free-speech-101event
80. Kolman, J. (2017, October 13). Class struggle: How identity politics divided a campus. Spiked. Retrieved from
http://www.spiked-online.com/newsite/article/how-identity-politics-divided-reed-college-black-lives-matter-freespeech/20417
81. Mendelsohn, D. (2015, March 16). Girl, interrupted: Who was Sappho? The New Yorker. Retrieved from
https://www.newyorker.com/magazine/2015/03/16/girl-interrupted
82. Reedies Against Racism. (2016, November 2). An open letter to Lucia [on Facebook]. Retrieved from
https://www.facebook.com/reediesagainstr4cism/posts/1186608438084694
83. Martínez Valdivia, L. (2017, October 27). Professors like me can’t stay silent about this extremist moment on
campuses. The Washington Post. Retrieved from https://www.washingtonpost.com/opinions/professors-like-mecant-stay-silent-about-this-extremist-moment-on-campuses/2017/10/27/fd7aded2-b9b0-11e7-9e58e6288544af98_story.html. For more on intimidation at Reed College, see Soave, R. (2016, December 13). Reed
College professor on social justice left: “I am a gay mixed-race woman. I am intimidated by these students” [Blog
post]. Retrieved from http://reason.com/blog/2016/12/13/reed-college-professor-on-social-justice. And note this
comment that Martínez Valdivia made on December 8, 2016, early in the protests: “I teach at Reed. I am intimidated
by these students. I am scared to teach courses on race, gender, or sexuality, or even texts that bring these issues up in
any way—and I am a gay mixed-race woman. There is a serious problem here and at other [liberal arts colleges], and
I’m at a loss as to how to begin to address it, especially since many of these students don’t believe in either historicity
or objective facts. (They denounce the latter as being a tool of the white cisheteropatriarchy.)” Martínez Valdivia, L.
[Blog comment, December 8, 2016] Re: Halberstam, J. (2016, December 7). Hiding the tears in my eyes—BOYS
DON’T CRY—A legacy. [Blog post]. Retrieved from https://bullybloggers.wordpress.com/2016/12/07/hiding-thetears-in-my-eyes-boys-dont-cry-a-legacy-by-jack-halberstam/#comment-13710
84. Kerr, E. (2018, February 1). “White supremacists are targeting college campuses like never before.” The Chronicle of
Higher Education. Retrieved from https://www.chronicle.com/article/White-Supremacists-Are/242403 [inactive]
85. Naughton, K. (2017, October). Speaking freely—What students think about expression at American colleges. FIRE.
Retrieved from https://www.thefire.org/publications/student-attitudes-free-speech-survey/student-attitudes-freespeech-survey-full-text/#executiveSummary

86. De Botton, A. (n.d.). Political correctness vs. politeness. The School of Life. Retrieved from
http://www.thebookoflife.org/political-correctness-vs-politeness
87. Barrett, L. (2017, July 14). When is speech violence? The New York Times. Retrieved from
https://www.nytimes.com/2017/07/14/opinion/sunday/when-is-speech-violence.html
88. Haidt, J., & Lukianoff, G. (2017, July 18). Why it’s a bad idea to tell students words are violence. The Atlantic.
Retrieved from https://www.theatlantic.com/education/archive/2017/07/why-its-a-bad-idea-to-tell-students-wordsare-violence/533970
89. Aurelius. Meditations, IV:7.
90. Haidt, J. (2017, March 2). Van Jones’ excellent metaphors about the dangers of ideological safety [Blog post].
Heterodox Academy. Retrieved from https://heterodoxacademy.org/2017/03/02/van-jones-excellent-metaphors

Chapter 5: Witch Hunts
1. Hoffer (1951/2010), p. 19.
2. Pavlac (2009).
3. Pavlac (2009).
4. Norton (2007), Introduction.
5. Norton (2007), Introduction.
6. Durkheim (1915/1965). For an updated analysis of the joys of collective action and group ritual, see also: Ehrenreich
(2006).
7. Bergesen (1978).
8. For an overview of the Cultural Revolution, see: MacFarquhar & Schoenhals (2006). See also this interview with a
woman who joined the Red Guard at age thirteen: Xiangzhen, Y. (2016, May 15). Confessions of a Red Guard, 50
years after China’s Cultural Revolution. Retrieved from http://www.cnn.com/2016/05/15/asia/china-culturalrevolution-red-guard-confession/index.html
9. Song, Y. (2011, August 25). Chronology of mass killings during the Chinese Cultural Revolution (1966–1976).
SciencesPo. Retrieved from http://www.sciencespo.fr/mass-violence-war-massacreresistance/en/document/chronology-mass-killings-during-chinese-cultural-revolution-1966-1976
10. Bergesen (1978), p. 20.
11. Bergesen (1978), p. 20.
12. Bergesen (1978), p. 21.
13. For example, see TheDemands.org, a site that arose within a few weeks of the 2015 Yale protests, at which students
from eighty universities posted their demands.
14. See chapter 3. See also: Friedersdorf, C. (2016, May 26). The perils of writing a provocative email at Yale. The
Atlantic. Retrieved from https://www.theatlantic.com/politics/archive/2016/05/the-peril-of-writing-a-provocativeemail-at-yale/484418
15. See chapter 3. See also: Haidt, J. (2015, November 18). True diversity requires generosity of spirit [Blog post].
Retrieved from https://heterodoxacademy.org/2015/11/18/true-diversity-requires-generosity-of-spirit
16. DiGravio, W. (Publisher). (2017, March 2). Students protest lecture by Dr. Charles Murray at Middlebury College
[Video file]. Retrieved from https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=a6EASuhefeI
17. Wiltermuth & Heath (2009). See also: Cohen, Ejsmond-Frey, Knight, & Dunbar (2009).
18. See Woodard (2011). The culture of safetyism and the most vigorous protests and shout-downs seem to occur
mostly in just two of the eleven “nations” that Woodard identifies: Yankeedom (from New England to the upper
Midwest) and The Left Coast (the coastal strip of the three West Coast states).
19. Tuvel (2017).
20. Johnson, K., Pérez-Peña, R., & Eligon, J. (2015, June 16). Rachel Dolezal, in center of storm, is defiant: “I identify as
black.” The New York Times. Retrieved from https://www.nytimes.com/2015/06/17/us/rachel-dolezal-nbc-todayshow.html
21. See https://www.rhodes.edu/bio/tuvelr
22. Open letter to Hypatia. (n.d.). Retrieved from https://archive.is/lUeR4#selection-71.0-71.22 [inactive]
23. Note: A new paragraph with the sentence “The statement is not an exhaustive summary of the many harms caused
by this article” was added to the open letter at approximately the 520th signature, on 5/1/2017. See: Open letter to
Hypatia. (n.d.). Retrieved from
https://docs.google.com/forms/d/1efp9C0MHch_6Kfgtlm0PZ76nirWtcEsqWHcvgidl2mU/viewform?
ts=59066d20&edit_requested=true

24. Tuvel referred to Caitlyn Jenner as “Caitlyn (formerly Bruce) Jenner.” “Deadnaming” is a term used to deride the
practice of referring to transgender people by their former, “dead” names. The online version of the article was
edited after publication, on May 4, 2017, and the correction reads in part: “[A]t the author’s request, a parenthetical
reference to Jenner’s birth name was removed.” See: Tuvel (2017). It’s worth noting, though, that even Caitlyn Jenner
herself insists, “I will refer to the name Bruce when I think it appropriate.” See: Oliver, K. (2017, May 8). If this is
feminism . . . The Philosophical Salon. Retrieved from http://thephilosophicalsalon.com/if-this-is-feminism-its-beenhijacked-by-the-thought-police. See also: Berenstain, N. (2017, April 29). Nora Berenstain on Rebecca Tuvel and
Hypatia. GenderTrender. Retrieved from https://gendertrender.wordpress.com/nora-berenstain-on-rebecca-tuveland-hypatia
25. Bergesen (1978), p. 21.
26. Singal, J. (2017, May 2). This is what a modern-day witch hunt looks like. New York. Retrieved from
http://nymag.com/daily/intelligencer/2017/05/transracialism-article-controversy.html
27. Sally Scholz, the editor to whom the open letter was addressed, issued this powerful statement in defense of the
publication of Tuvel’s article: “I firmly believe, and this belief will not waver, that it is utterly inappropriate for
editors to repudiate an article they have accepted for publication (barring issues of plagiarism or falsification of data).
In this respect, editors must stand behind the authors of accepted papers. That is where I stand. Professor Tuvel’s
paper went through the peer review process and was accepted by the reviewers and by me.” See: Weinberg, J. (2017,
May 6). Hypatia’s editor and its board president defend publication of Tuvel article. Daily Nous. Retrieved from
http://dailynous.com/2017/05/06/hypatias-editor-board-president-defend-publication-tuvel-article
28. Oliver (2017); see n. 24.
29. Outside of feminist philosophy, in the broader philosophical community, many professors did stand up for Tuvel
and against the efforts to have her work retracted. The relevant community, from a Durkheimian perspective, was a
subset of feminist philosophers.
30. Another open letter of condemnation and demand for retraction was aimed at Bruce Gilley, a political scientist at
Portland State University in Oregon, for writing an essay arguing that colonialism conferred some benefits on
colonized countries. The article was retracted after the journal editor received death threats. See Patel, V. (2018,
March 21). Last fall, this scholar defended colonialism. Now he’s defending himself. The Chronicle of Higher
Education. Retrieved from https://www.chronicle.com/article/Last-Fall-This-Scholar/242880
31. Wax, A., & Alexander, L. (2017, August 9). Paying the price for breakdown of the country’s bourgeois culture. The
Inquirer. Retrieved from http://www.philly.com/philly/opinion/commentary/paying-the-price-for-breakdown-ofthe-countrys-bourgeois-culture-20170809.html
32. Shweder (1996).
33. The letter said that all those who are against hateful ideas about racial superiority “must denounce faculty members
that are complicit in and uphold white supremacy” by treating ideas like Wax’s as “the very basis for white
supremacy.” See: Guest column by 54 Penn students & alumni—Statement on Amy Wax and Charlottesville. (2017,
August 21). The Daily Pennsylvanian. Retrieved from http://www.thedp.com/article/2017/08/guest-column-amywax-charlottesville
34. Jon wrote a summary of the case and a defense of Wax. See: Haidt, J. (2017, September 2). In defense of Amy Wax’s
defense of bourgeois values [Blog post]. Heterodox Academy. Retrieved from
https://heterodoxacademy.org/2017/09/02/in-defense-of-amy-waxs-defense-of-bourgeois-values. A few weeks later,
the leader of the faculty letter of condemnation, Jonah Gelbach, wrote a long essay responding to the details of the
Wax & Alexander essay. See: Haidt, J. (2017, September 21). Jonah Gelbach responds to Amy Wax & Jon Haidt [Blog
post]. Heterodox Academy. Retrieved from https://heterodoxacademy.org/2017/09/21/jonah-gelbach-responds-towax-and-haidt
35. Thucydides (431 BCE/1972). Book III, chapter 82, section 4.
36. See: Haidt (2012), chapters 2 and 4.
37. Eggertson (2010).
38. One of the best experiences of Jon’s academic career was moderating a bipartisan working group of poverty experts
who worked together to strip away partisanship from a complicated research literature and identify the programs
that truly work. See: American Enterprise Institute/Brookings Working Group on Poverty and Opportunity. (2015,
December 3). Opportunity, Responsibility, and Security. Retrieved from
http://www.aei.org/publication/opportunity-responsibility-and-security. Chapter 5 evaluates early child-hood
interventions.
39. Duarte et al. (2015). See especially: Abramowitz, Gomes, & Abramowitz (1975). See also: Crawford & Jussim (2018).
40. On the personality, political, and behavioral correlates of openness, see: McCrae (1996). See also: Carney, Jost,
Gosling, & Potter (2008).
41. Gosling (2008).

42. McClintock, Spaulding, & Turner (1965).
43. For more about the HERI survey, visit https://heri.ucla.edu
44. See analysis of all relevant studies prior to 2014 in Duarte et al. (2015). For the most recent data point, seventeen to
one, see Langbert, Quain, & Klein (2016).
45. Langbert et al. (2016).
46. According to Langbert et al. (2016), which confirmed an earlier finding about New England using HERI data by
Samuel Abrams, see: Abrams, S. J. (2016, July 1). There are conservative professors, just not in these states. The New
York Times. Retrieved from https://www.nytimes.com/2016/07/03/opinion/sunday/there-are-conservativeprofessors-just-not-in-these-states.html
47. Duarte et al. (2015).
48. Of course, a progressive professor could still present conservative ideas. But as John Stuart Mill wrote, “Nor is it
enough that he should hear the opinions of adversaries from his own teachers, presented as they state them, and
accompanied by what they offer as refutations. He must be able to hear them from persons who actually believe
them . . . he must know them in their most plausible and persuasive form.” See: Mill (1859/2003), chapter 2, p. 72.
49. The Crimson Editorial Board. (2016, November 11). Elephant and man at Harvard. The Harvard Crimson. Retrieved
from http://www.thecrimson.com/article/2016/11/11/ideological-diversity
50. Eagen, K., Stolzenberg, E. B., Zimmerman, H. B., Aragon, M. C., Sayson, H. W., & Rios-Aguilar, C. (2018, February
15). The American freshman: National norms fall 2016. Higher Education Research Institute. Retrieved from
https://www.heri.ucla.edu/monographs/TheAmericanFreshman2016.pdf
51. Interestingly, this shift since 2012 is due entirely to a change among women. Male college students have not shifted
to the left. Rather, the gender gap, in which women are more left-leaning than men, has widened from roughly 6
points in 2011 to roughly 12 points in 2016. Rempel, C. (2017, May 2). Political polarization among college freshmen
is at a record high, as is the share identifying as “far left.” The Washington Post. Retrieved from
https://www.washingtonpost.com/news/rampage/wp/2017/05/02/political-polarization-among-college-freshmen-isat-a-record-high-as-is-the-share-identifying-as-far-left
52. A wave of essays published in March 2018 claimed that nothing on campus had changed with regard to free speech.
See, for example: Yglesias, M. (2018, March 12). Everything we think about the political correctness debate is wrong.
Vox. Retrieved from https://www.vox.com/policy-and-politics/2018/3/12/17100496/political-correctness-data. But
on closer inspection of the data, Jon and his colleagues at Heterodox Academy showed that there had been many
changes in average attitudes toward controversial speech and toward a greater willingness to use illiberal methods to
prevent such speech. See: Stevens, S., & Haidt, J. (2018, March 19). The skeptics are wrong: Attitudes about free
speech on campus are changing. Heterodox Academy. Retrieved from https://heterodoxacademy.org/skeptics-arewrong-about-campus-speech
53. Bestcolleges.com. (n.d.). The 10 most liberal colleges in America. Retrieved from
http://www.bestcolleges.com/features/most-liberal-colleges
54. Paros, M. (2018, February 22). The Evergreen Meltdown. Quillette. Retrieved from
http://quillette.com/2018/02/22/the-evergreen-meltdown. See Evergreen’s mission here:
http://www.evergreen.edu/about/mission
55. Weiss, B. (2017, June 1). When the left turns on its own. The New York Times. Retrieved from
https://www.nytimes.com/2017/06/01/opinion/when-the-left-turns-on-its-own.html
56. The Evergreen State College. (n.d.). Day of Absence & Day of Presence. Retrieved January 24, 2018, from
https://evergreen.edu/multicultural/day-of-absence-day-of-presence [inactive]
57. Ward (1994). An online version is available here: Ward, D. T. (1965). Day of absence—A satirical fantasy. National
Humanities Center. Retrieved from
http://nationalhumanitiescenter.org/pds/maai3/protest/text12/warddayofabsence.pdf
58. Weiss (2017); see n. 55.
59. Jaschik, S. (2017, May 30). Who defines what is racist? Inside Higher Ed. Retrieved from
https://www.insidehighered.com/news/2017/05/30/escalating-debate-race-evergreen-state-students-demand-firingprofessor
60. Volokh, E. (2017, May 26). “Professor told he’s not safe on campus after college protests” at Evergreen State College
(Washington). The Washington Post. Retrieved from https://www.washingtonpost.com/news/volokhconspiracy/wp/2017/05/26/professor-told-hes-not-safe-on-campus-after-college-protests-at-evergreen-stateuniversity-washington
61. Long, K. (2017, June 10). Long-simmering discord led to The Evergreen State College’s viral moment. The Seattle
Times. Retrieved from https://www.seattletimes.com/seattle-news/education/discord-at-evergreen-state-simmeredfor-a-year-before-it-boiled-over

62. Our source for the events of the prior year is Paros, M. (personal communication, January 10, 2018.) You can watch
a video of the imaginary canoe scene, beginning at 1:06, here: The Evergreen State College Productions (Producer).
(2016, November 18). Equity and inclusion council community report back [Video file]. Retrieved from
https://youtube.com/watch?v-wPZT7CASvCs&feature-youtu.be&
63. Weinstein, B. (2017, May 30). The campus mob came for me—and you, professor, could be next. The Wall Street
Journal. Retrieved from https://www.wsj.com/articles/the-campus-mob-came-for-me-and-you-professor-could-benext-1496187482
64. Haidt, J. (2017, May 27). The blasphemy case against Bret Weinstein, and its four lessons for professors [Blog post].
Retrieved from https://heterodoxacademy.org/2017/05/27/this-weeks-witch-hunt
65. Caruso, J., & Gockowski, A. (2017, May 25). VIDEO: White prof harassed for questioning diversity event. Campus
Reform. Retrieved from https://www.campusreform.org/?ID=9233
66. Kaufman, E. (2017, May 26). Another professor, another mob. National Review. Retrieved from
http://www.nationalreview.com/article/448034/evergreen-state-pc-mob-accosts-liberal-professor
67. In an Orwellian example of safetyism combined with the Untruth of Us Versus Them, protesters later described it as
forming a “protective ring around the students of color conversing with Weinstein.” Kozak-Gilroy, J. (2017, May 31).
A year of events, a time line of protests. Cooper Point Journal. Retrieved from
http://www.cooperpointjournal.com/2017/05/31/a-year-of-events-a-time-line-of-protests. For a civil conversation
between Weinstein and protesters after the confrontation, see Lavelle, C. (2017, May 23). This is what a discussion
looks like [on Facebook]. Retrieved from https://www.facebook.com/celeste.lavelle/vid eos/10203256021397424
68. Anonymous (personal communication, August 23, 2017).
69. Andy Archive (Producer). (2017, May 28). Black Power activist students demand white professor resigns over
“racism” [Video file]. Retrieved from https://youtu.be/ERd-2HvCOHI?t=4m2s
70. Boyce, B. (Producer). (2017, June 20). Is Evergreen a cult? [Video file]. Retrieved from
https://youtu.be/VfVRaExw1lI?t=4m24s. See also: Heying, H. (2017, October 2). First, they came for the biologists.
The Wall Street Journal. Retrieved from https://www.wsj.com/articles/first-they-came-for-the-biologists-1506984033
71. Anonymous (personal communication, August 23, 2017).
72. Loury, G., & Weinstein, B. (Producer). (2017, June 30). Glenn Loury & Bret Weinstein—Bloggingheads.tv. [Video
file]. Retrieved from https://bloggingheads.tv/videos/46681
73. “The protesters did let Bret leave, but they assigned ‘handlers’ to him and his students.” Heying & Weinstein (2017,
December 12). Bonfire of the academies: Two professors on how leftist intolerance is killing higher education.
Washington Examiner. Retrieved from https://www.washingtonexaminer.com/bonfire-of-the-academies-twoprofessors-on-how-leftist-intolerance-is-killing-higher-education
74. li5up6 (Producer). (2017, May 31). [MIRROR] Student takeover of Evergreen State College. [Video file].Retrieved
from https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ynnNArPi8GM
75. VICE (Producer). (2017, June 16). Evergreen State College controversy (HBO) [Video file]. Retrieved from
https://youtu.be/2cMYfxOFBBM?t=2m19s
76. Heying & Weinstein (2017, December 12); see n. 78. S See also Boyce, B.A. (2017, July 29). Social Network Justice at
Evergreen [Video File]. Retrieved from https://youtu.be/Jye2C5r-QA0?t=8m23s
77. Sexton, J. (Publisher). (2017, July 13). Evergreen student: “I’ve been told several times that I’m not allowed to speak
because I’m white” [Video file]. Retrieved from https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=OQ8WQnsm14Y
78. best of evergreen (Publisher). (2017, May 27). Student takeover of Evergreen State College [Video file]. Retrieved
from https://youtu.be/bO1agIlLlhg?t=6m14s
79. When asked, they said they were looking for “an individual” but refused to say whom. Campus police concluded
they were looking for Bret Weinstein. Anonymous (personal communication, August 23, 2017).
80. Heying & Weinstein (2017, December 12); see n. 73.
81. Kozak-Gilroy (2017); see n. 67.
82. Kozak-Gilroy (2017); see n. 67.
83. I Hypocrite Too (Producer). (2017, May 29). Ableist students demand no homework Evergreen College [Video file].
Retrieved from https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=nh1wGFFsIts
84. CampusReform (Producer). (2017, June 1). Student protesters at Evergreen hold administrators hostage over
demands [Video file]. Retrieved from https://youtu.be/Msfsp5Ofz4g
85. In a later VICE News documentary, interviewer Michael Moynihan tells Bridges, “A student told me that you’re a
white supremacist.” Bridges replies, “I don’t believe I am.” The astonished Moynihan asks, “You don’t believe you are
but you accept that you might be?” Bridges replies, “No . . . well, it depends on what you mean by a white
supremacist. What does that mean? I’m a white person in a position of privilege.” VICE (2017); see n. 75.
86. The Liberty Hound (Producer). (2017, May 26). “All white people leave campus OR ELSE!!” Tucker covers INSANE
Evergreen State College story [Video file]. Retrieved from https://youtu.be/n3SdJhJ2lps?t=4m10s. The police chief

told Weinstein that “he needed to get off campus immediately, and off his bike, too, indefinitely. He was too easy a
target on his bike, and the police couldn’t protect him, as they had been ordered to stand down.” Heying &
Weinstein (2017, December 12).
87. Anonymous (personal communication, August 23, 2017).
88. Loury & Weinstein (2017); see n. 72. See also: Zimmerman, M. (2017, July 10). The Evergreen State College: Is
speaking with Tucker Carlson a punishable offense? HuffPost. Retrieved from
https://www.huffingtonpost.com/entry/the-evergreen-state-college-is-speaking-withtucker_us_596318a5e4b0cf3c8e8d59fc. See also: Heying & Weinstein (2017); see n. 73. See also: Kanzenkankaku.
(2017, June 1). Protesters lockdown Evergreen State College, situation spirals out of control [Online forum
comment]. Retrieved from http://forums.fstdt.net/index.php?topic=7607.0. See also: Jaschik (2017); see n. 58.
89. The Liberty Hound (Producer). (2017, June 12). “It’s not safe to go back”: Tucker follows up with Evergreen prof
Bret Weinstein [Video file]. Retrieved from https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=SNdNF93H3OU
90. Not including faculty emeritus.
91. Haidt, J. (2017, June 7). A second Evergreen professor speaks out [Blog post]. Retrieved from
https://heterodoxacademy.org/2017/06/07/a-second-evergreen-professor-speaks-out
92. “Many members of the faculty were privately supportive, but too scared to speak up, and even too scared to vote
their conscience in faculty meetings.” Weinstein, B. (personal communication, February 19, 2018).
93. The Liberty Hound (Producer). (2017, May 26). “All white people leave campus OR ELSE!!” Tucker covers INSANE
Evergreen State College story [Video file]. Retrieved from https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=n3SdJhJ2lps
94. Jennings, R. (2017, July 6). N.J. man accused of threat to “execute” college students out of jail. NJ.com. Retrieved
from http://www.nj.com/morris/index.ssf/2017/07/morris_man_accused_of_threatening_college_3000_mil.html
95. Svrluga, S., & Heim, J. (2017, June 1). Threat shuts down college embroiled in racial dispute. The Washington Post.
Retrieved from https://www.washingtonpost.com/news/grade-point/wp/2017/06/01/threats-shut-down-collegeembroiled-in-racial-dispute. See also: Svrluga, S. (2017, June 5). Evergreen State College closes again after threat and
protests over race. The Washington Post. Retrieved from https://www.washingtonpost.com/news/gradepoint/wp/2017/06/05/college-closed-for-third-day-concerned-about-threat-after-protests-over-race. See also:
Jennings (2017); see n. 94.
96. An Evergreen student emailed a professor, “Because I had shown some criticism to the protest that was occurring on
campus in earlier weeks I have become targeted and harassed by a wide number of students on campus. Recently
there have been a number of students who patrol lower campus with weapons like baseball bats and tasers who claim
to be making the campus safer but in reality are making campus more hostile.” Kabbany, J. (2017, June 5). Evergreen
official asks student vigilantes to stop patrolling campus with bats, batons. The College Fix. Retrieved from
https://www.thecollegefix.com/post/33027
97. The College Fix Staff. (2017, June 2). Evergreen State faculty demand punishment of white professor who refused to
leave on anti-white day. The College Fix. Retrieved from https://www.thecollegefix.com/post/32946. See also: The
Liberty Hound (2017, June 12); see n. 89.
98. Thomason, A. (2017, September 16). Evergreen State will pay $500,000 to settle with professor who criticized
handling of protests. The Chronicle of Higher Education. Retrieved from
http://www.chronicle.com/blogs/ticker/evergreen-state-will-pay-500000-to-settle-with-professor-who-criticizedhandling-of-protests/120110
99. (2018, March 7). Former Evergreen chief of police alleges hostile work environment. The Cooper Point Journal.
Retrieved from http://www.cooperpointjournal.com/2018/03/07/former-evergreen-chief-of-police-alleges-hostilework-environment-stacy-brown-makes-moves-towards-a-legal-claim-of-discrimination-based-on-race-and-gender
[inactive]
100. Chasmar, J. (2016, September 2). Evergreen State College president slams Chicago’s “tone deaf” approach to safe
spaces. The Washington Times. Retrieved from http://www.washingtontimes.com/news/2016/sep/2/george-bridgeswash-college-president-slams-chicag
101. Jaschik (2017); see n. 59.
102. Richardson, B. (2017, May 29). Evergreen State College president expresses “gratitude” for students who took over
campus. The Washington Times. Retrieved from http://www.washingtontimes.com/news/2017/may/29/evergreenstate-college-president-expresses-gratit
103. Zimmerman, M. (2017, July 25). A “Through the Looking Glass” perspective on The Evergreen State College.
HuffPost. Retrieved from http://www.huffingtonpost.com/entry/a-through-the-looking-glass-perspective-on-theevergreen_us_5971bd7ae4b06b511b02c271
104. Parke, C. (2017, December 14). Evergreen professor who made anti-white comments resigns, gets $240G
settlement. Fox News. Retrieved from http://www.foxnews.com/us/2017/12/14/evergreen-professor-who-made-antiwhite-comments-resigns-gets-240g-settlement.html

105. best of evergreen (Publisher) (2017, May 27). Student takeover of Evergreen State College [Video file]. Retrieved
from https://youtu.be/bO1agIlLlhg?t=53s
106. Badger Pundit (Producer). (2017, July 12). Evergreen student: Campus unsafe for white students who want to focus
on education [Video file]. Fox News. Retrieved from https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=pNwVWq8EjSs

Chapter 6: The Polarization Cycle
1. Reeves, R.V., & Joo, N. (2017, October 4). White, still: The American upper middle class. Brookings. Retrieved from
https://www.brookings.edu/blog/social-mobility-memos/2017/10/04/white-still-the-american-upper-middle-class
2. For evidence of this shift, with a growing preference for inclusion when it is presented as conflicting with freedom of
speech, see: Stevens, S., & Haidt, J (2018, March 19). The skeptics are wrong: Attitudes about free speech are
changing on campus. Heterodox Academy. Retrieved from https://heterodoxacademy.org/skeptics-are-wrong-aboutcampus-speech
3. Stanger, A. (2017, March 13). Understanding the angry mob at Middlebury that gave me a concussion. The New York
Times. Retrieved from https://www.nytimes.com/2017/03/13/opinion/understanding-the-angry-mob-that-gave-mea-concussion.html
4. Pew Research Center. (2017, October 5). The partisan divide on political values grows even wider. Retrieved from
http://www.people-press.org/2017/10/05/1-partisan-divides-over-political-values-widen
5. With the exception that Republicans’ ratings of their own party dipped in 2016.
6. You can download the data yourself at http://www.electionstudies.org.
7. There were plenty of cultural conflicts, particularly in the 1960s and 1970s, but measures of political polarization in
Congress were low; cross-partisan cooperation was high. Hare & Poole (2014).
8. See Putnam (2000) on social capital.
9. Greenblatt, A. (2016, November 18). Political segregation is growing and “We’re living with the consequences.”
Governing. Retrieved from http://www.governing.com/topics/politics/gov-bill-bishop-interview.html
10. For example, in a September 2017 survey of adults aged eighteen to thirty-four, only 11% of African Americans, 18%
of Asian Americans, and 20% of Latino Americans had very or somewhat favorable views of the Republican Party.
By contrast, those groups had a favorable view of the Democratic Party: 61%, 68%, and 52%, respectively. See: NBC
News & GenForward Survey: September 2017 Toplines, p.4. Retrieved from
http://genforwardsurvey.com/assets/uploads/2017/09/NBC-GenForward-Toplines-September-2017-Final.pdf
11. Iyengar & Krupenkin (2018).
12. Pariser (2011). A “filter bubble” is what happens when the algorithms that websites use to predict your interests
based on your reading/viewing habits work to avoid showing you alternative viewpoints. See: El-Bermawy, M. (2016,
November 18). Your filter bubble is destroying democracy. Wired. Retrieved from
https://www.wired.com/2016/11/filter-bubble-destroying-democracy
13. Mann & Ornstein (2012).
14. Levitsky, S., & Ziblatt, D. (2018, January 27). How wobbly is our democracy? The New York Times. Retrieved from
https://www.nytimes.com/2018/01/27/opinion/sunday/democracy-polarization.html
15. Others include increasing education (educated people are more partisan), increasing immigration and diversity, and
the increasing importance of money in campaigns. See a list at Haidt, J., & Abrams, S. (2015, January 7). The top 10
reasons American politics are so broken. The Washington Post. Retrieved from
https://www.washingtonpost.com/news/wonk/wp/2015/01/07/the-top-10-reasons-american-politics-are-worsethan-ever
16. Iyengar & Krupenkin (2018), p. 202.
17. Berry & Sobieraj (2014).
18. Cillizza, C. (2014, May 14). Just 7 percent of journalists are Republicans. That’s far fewer than even a decade ago.
The Washington Post. Retrieved from https://www.washingtonpost.com/news/the-fix/wp/2014/05/06/just-7-percentof-journalists-are-republicans-thats-far-less-than-even-a-decade-ago
19. Littleton, J. (2017, May 29). The truth about the Evergreen protests. Medium. Retrieved from
https://medium.com/@princessofthefaeries666/the-truth-about-the-evergreen-protests-444c86ee6307
20. Littleton, J. (2017, June 16). The media brought the alt-right to my campus. The New York Times. Retrieved from
https://www.nytimes.com/2017/06/16/opinion/media-alt-right-evergreen-college.html?_r=0. See also: Pemberton, L.
(2017, July 13). Evergreen students, faculty, and alumni hold discussion after unrest. The Chronicle. Retrieved from
http://www.chronline.com/news/evergreen-students-faculty-and-alumni-hold-discussion-afterunrest/article_c9d9f5f8-67ef-11e7-8b53-5ff0ef03700b.html

21. Long, K. (2017, June 5). Evergreen State College reopens; threat deemed not credible. The Seattle Times. Retrieved
from https://www.seattletimes.com/seattle-news/education/no-imminent-threat-at-evergreen-state-college-afterclasses-canceled-for-third-day
22. Atomwaffen division visits Evergreen State College. (n.d.). Retrieved from
https://www.bitchute.com/video/bZMiTj2TC5bf
23. TheFIREorg [Producer]. (2018, February 8). Lisa Durden on her famous Fox News interview [Video file]. Retrieved
from https://www.youtube.com/watch?time_continue=310&v=PfmdlqdC3mE
24. L. Durden (personal communication, March 24, 2018).
25. In his statement, the newly appointed college president claimed that the college had been “immediately inundated
with feedback from students, faculty and prospective students and their families expressing frustration, concern and
even fear” about “the views expressed by a College employee,” and said the college had a “responsibility to investigate
those concerns.” The president declared that the college “supports and affirms the right of free speech and
independent views and expressions of those views for our faculty and staff” and that his “administration has a duty
to set a strong example of tolerance.” Statement from Essex County College president Anthony E. Munroe. (2017,
June 23). Retrieved from http://www.essex.edu/pr/2017/06/23/statement-from-essex-county-college-presidentanthony-e-munroe-3
26. What about the feedback that the college was “inundated” with? Public records indicate that for the first thirteen
days after Durden’s television appearance, only one person contacted the college to complain about Durden—and
even before that person contacted the college, administrators had already started the process that led to her
suspension. Two weeks after her appearance, the website NJ.com announced that Durden had been suspended.
Shortly thereafter, administrators received twenty-nine emails, two Facebook messages, an unknown number of
phone calls, and a single voicemail supporting the college for suspending “a teacher who wants to spew hate speech
covered up by free speech.” You can listen to the entire voicemail here: TheFIREorg [Producer]. (2017, January 21).
Essex County College voicemail about Lisa Durden [Audio file]. Retrieved from https://youtu.be/pTYM30Q4NsE.
See: Steinbaugh, A. (2018, January 23). After FIRE lawsuit, Essex County College finally turns over documents about
firing of Black Lives Matter advocate. FIRE. Retrieved from https://www.thefire.org/after-fire-lawsuit-essex-countycollege-finally-turns-over-documents-about-firing-of-black-lives-matter-advocate. See also: Carter, B. (2017, June
20). Going on Fox News cost me my job, professor claims. NJ.com. Retrieved from
http://www.nj.com/essex/index.ssf/2017/06/essex_county_college_professor_suspended_after_fox.html
27. Flaherty, C. (2017, June 21). Suspended for standing up to Fox News? Inside Higher Ed. Retrieved from
https://www.insidehighered.com/news/2017/06/21/college-allegedly-suspends-communications-adjunct-commentsabout-race-fox-news. See also: Adely, H. (2017, October 27). For speaking out, N.J. professors are punished. North
Jersey. Retrieved from https://www.northjersey.com/story/news/2017/10/27/professors-punished-for-speakingout/777819001. See also: Steinbaugh, A. (2018, January 23). After FIRE lawsuit, Essex County College finally turns
over documents about firing of Black Lives Matter advocate. FIRE. Retrieved from https://www.thefire.org/after-firelawsuit-essex-county-college-finally-turns-over-documents-about-firing-of-black-lives-matter-advocate
28. Steinbaugh, A. (2017, October 20). Russia-linked Twitter account helped Drexel professor’s “White Genocide” tweet
go viral, prompting university investigation. FIRE. Retrieved from https://www.thefire.org/russia-linked-twitteraccount-helped-drexel-professors-white-genocide-tweet-go-viral-prompting-university-investigation
29. Saffron, I. (2017, December 27). How a Drexel prof’s Christmas “wish” stirred a Twitter tempest. Philly.com.
Retrieved from
http://www.philly.com/philly/news/20161227_How_a_Drexel_prof_s_Christmas_wish_stirred_a_Twitter_tempest.html
30. McLaughlin, S. (2017, December 29). Drexel professor resigns after months-long investigation, exile from campus.
FIRE. Retrieved from https://www.thefire.org/drexel-professor-resigns-after-months-long-investigation-exile-fromcampus
31. Thomason, A. (2017, December 28). Drexel professor whose charged tweets drew fire from the right will leave the
university. The Chronicle of Higher Education. Retrieved from https://www.chronicle.com/article/Drexel-ProfessorWhose-Charged/242124
32. Cornwell, P. (2017, June 1). Princeton professor cancels Seattle talk after Fox News segment, death threats. The
Seattle Times. (Updated June 2, 2017). Retrieved from https://www.seattletimes.com/seattle-news/princetonprofessor-cancels-seattle-talk-after-fox-news-segment-death-threats. See also: Trump a “racist, sexist
megalomaniac,” Princeton prof says in commencement speech. (2017, May 28). Fox News. Retrieved from
http://www.foxnews.com/us/2017/05/28/trump-racist-sexist-megalomaniac-princeton-prof-says-incommencement-speech.html
33. Haymarket Books. (2017, May 31). A statement from Keeanga-Yamahtta Taylor [Facebook post]. Retrieved from
https://www.facebook.com/haymarketbooks/posts/1494045207312386

34. Bond, S.E. (2017, June 7). Why we need to start seeing the classical world in color. Hyperallergic. Retrieved from
https://hyperallergic.com/383776/why-we-need-to-start-seeing-the-classical-world-in-color
35. Gurewitsch, M. (2008, July). True colors: Archaeologist Vinzenz Brinkmann insists his eye-popping reproductions
of ancient Greek sculptures are right on target. Smithsonian Magazine. Retrieved from
https://www.smithsonianmag.com/arts-culture/true-colors-17888
36. For example, American white supremacist group Identity Evropa tweeted a poster of a marble statue with the
caption “PROTECT YOUR HERITAGE.” @IdentityEvropa. (2016, November 3). Seattle has never looked better.
#FashTheCity [Tweet]. Retrieved from
http://web.archive.org/web/20171115062648/https://twitter.com/IdentityEvropa/status/794368750346588160
[inactive]. Cited in Bond (2017); see n. 34.
37. Of course, Bond said neither of these things. Hoft, J. (2017, July 18). University prof: Using white marble in
sculptures is racist and creates “white supremacy.” Gateway Pundit. Retrieved from
http://www.thegatewaypundit.com/2017/07/university-prof-using-white-marble-sculptures-racist-creates-whitesupremacy. See also: Jackson, D. (2017, June 8). Prof: “White marble” in artwork contributes to white supremacy.
Campus Reform. Retrieved from https://www.campusreform.org/?ID=9285. See also: Krayden, D. (2017, June 10).
Professor equates white marble statues with white supremacy. The Daily Caller. Retrieved from
http://dailycaller.com/2017/06/10/professor-equates-white-marble-statues-with-white-supremacy
38. Mikelionis, L. (2017, June 9). Iowa university professor says “white marble” actually influences “white supremacist”
ideas. Education News. Retrieved from http://www.educationviews.org/iowa-university-professor-white-marbleinfluences-white-supremacist-ideas
39. Osgerby, P. (2017, June 19). UI professor receives death threats over article on classical art. Little Village. Retrieved
from http://littlevillagemag.com/ui-professor-receives-death-threats-over-article-on-classical-art
40. Charis-Carlson, J. (2017, June 19). UI prof’s post on ancient statues, white supremacists elicits death threats. Iowa
City Press-Citizen. Retrieved from https://www.press-citizen.com/story/news/2017/06/16/ui-classics-professorreceives-threats-after-online-essay-statuary-race/403275001. See also: Quintana, C. (2017, June 16). For one scholar,
an online stoning tests the limits of public scholarship. The Chronicle of Higher Education. Retrieved from
https://www.chronicle.com/article/For-One-Scholar-an-Online/240384
41. Allen, C. (2017, June 26). Liberal professors say bizarre things—and then blame the conservative media for reporting
on them. Independent Women’s Forum. Retrieved from http://iwf.org/blog/2804174/Liberal-Professors-Say-BizarreThings--and-Then-Blame-the-Conservative-Media-for-Reporting-on-Them
42. See Haidt. J. (2017, June 28). Professors must now fear intimidation from both sides. Heterodox Academy. Retrieved
from https://heterodoxacademy.org/professors-must-now-fear-intimidation-from-both-sides
43. Schmidt, P. (2017, June 22). Professors’ growing risk: Harassment for things they never really said. The Chronicle of
Higher Education. Retrieved from https://www.chronicle.com/article/Professors-Growing-Risk-/240424?cid=rclink
44. Haidt, J. (2017, April 26). Intimidation is the new normal on campus. The Chronicle of Higher Education. Retrieved
from https://www.chronicle.com/article/Intimidation-Is-the-New-Normal/239890
45. Flaherty, C. (2016, November 22). Being watched. Inside Higher Ed. Retrieved from
highered.com/news/2016/11/22/new-website-seeks-register-professors-accused-liberal-bias-and-anti-americanvalues">https://www.insidehighered.com/news/2016/11/22/new-website-seeks-register-professors-accused-liberalbias-and-anti-american-values">highered.com/news/2016/11/22/new-website-seeks-register-professors-accusedliberal-bias-and-anti-american-values
46. Heterodox Academy condemned the Professor Watchlist. See: HxA Executive Team. (2016, November 24).
Heterodox Academy condemns Professor Watchlist. Retrieved from https://heterodoxacademy.org/heterodoxacademy-condemns-professor-watchlist
47. Middlebrook, H. (2017, November 14). The fascinating, if unreliable, history of hate crime tracking in the US. CNN.
Retrieved from https://www.cnn.com/2017/01/05/health/hate-crimes-tracking-history-fbi/index.html. Middlebrook
correctly notes that hate crimes are historically underreported; still, years of decline, followed by a sudden surge in
2015, may not be strictly attributable to changes in accounting methods.
48. FBI: US hate crimes rise for second straight year. (2017, November 13). BBC News. Retrieved from
http://www.bbc.com/news/world-us-canada-41975573
49. Farivar, M. (2017, September 19). Hate crimes rise in major US cities in 2017. Voice of America. Retrieved from
https://www.voanews.com/a/hate-crimes-rising-in-us/4034719.html
50. Alfonseca, K. (2017, August 21). When hate meets hoax. ProPublica. Retrieved from
https://www.propublica.org/article/when-hate-meets-hoax. See also: Soave, R. (2018, January 19). Another hate
crime at the University of Maryland turns out to be a hoax. Reason. Retrieved from
http://reason.com/blog/2018/01/19/a-second-hate-crime-at-the-university-of. See also: Gose, B. (1999, January 8).

Hate-crime hoaxes unsettle campuses. The Chronicle of Higher Education. Retrieved from
https://www.chronicle.com/article/Hate-Crime-Hoaxes-Unsettle/2836 [inactive]
51. Suspect in Mizzou threats identified as Lake St. Louis teen. (2015, November 11). NBC12. Retrieved from
http://www.nbc12.com/story/30489913/um-police-arrest-suspect-who-made-racist-threats-on-social-media
52. Bui, L. (2017, October 17). U-Md. student to face hate-crime charge in fatal stabbing on campus. The Washington
Post. Retrieved from https://www.washingtonpost.com/local/public-safety/u-md-student-to-face-hate-crime-chargein-fatal-stabbing-on-campus/2017/10/17/a17bfa1c-b35c-11e7-be94-fabb0f1e9ffb_story.html
53. One charge was later reduced to accessory after the fact. See: Smithson, D. (2017, November 9). Cases continue in
shooting after Spencer protest. Ocala Star-Banner. Retrieved from http://www.ocala.com/news/20171109/casescontinue-in-shooting-after-spencer-protest. See also: Rozsa, L., & Svrluga, S. (2017, October 20). 3 men charged in
shooting after white nationalist Richard Spencer’s speech in Florida. Chicago Tribune. Retrieved from
http://www.chicagotribune.com/news/nationworld/ct-shooting-richard-spencer-speech-20171020-story.html
54. Student in Trump shirt detained after brandishing knife, saying “Kill all illegals.” (2018, February 16). The Daily
Beast. Retrieved from https://www.thedailybeast.com/student-in-trump-shirt-who-brandished-knife-and-said-killall-illegals-detained
55. McWhorter, J. (2008, December 30). Racism in America is over. Forbes. Retrieved from
https://www.forbes.com/2008/12/30/end-of-racism-oped-cx_jm_1230mcwhorter.html
56. On the sharp drop in Republican trust in universities since 2015, see Pew Research Center (2017, July 10). Sharp
partisan divisions in views of national institutions. Retrieved from http://www.people-press.org/2017/07/10/sharppartisan-divisions-in-views-of-national-institutions

Chapter 7: Anxiety and Depression
1. Solomon (2014), p. 110.
2. Novotney (2014).
3. By 2015, 22% of college students were seeking mental health services (10% on some campuses, up to 50% on others).
And “54 percent of all college students report[ed] feeling overwhelming anxiety, up from 46.4 percent in 2010.” See
Estroff Marano, H. (2015, September 1). Crisis U. Psychology Today. Retrieved from
https://www.psychologytoday.com/articles/201509/crisis-u
4. Levinson-King, R. (2017, March 13). Teen suicide on the rise among Canadian girls.BBC News. Retrieved from
http://www.bbc.com/news/world-us-canada-39210463. See also: Canadian Institute for Health Information. (n.d.).
Intentional self-harm among youth in Canada. Retrieved from
https://www.cihi.ca/sites/default/files/info_child_harm_en.pdf
5. Sanghani, R. (2017, March 16). Why are so many of Britain’s teen girls struggling with mental health problems? The
Telegraph. Retrieved from http://www.telegraph.co.uk/health-fitness/body/why-are-so-many-of-britains-teen-girlsstruggling-with-mental-he. That article refers to a large longitudinal UK study, which can be retrieved here:
https://www.gov.uk/government/uploads/system/uploads/attachment_data/file/599871/LSYPE2_w2research_report.pdf. See also: Pells, R. (2017, July 9). Number of university students claiming special circumstances
for mental health problems “soars.” The Independent. Retrieved from
http://www.independent.co.uk/news/education/education-news/number-of-university-students-mental-healthproblems-illness-claiming-special-circumstances-a7831791.html
6. Data on trends in the UK and Canada collected in 2018 and 2019 will be crucial for determining whether or not they
have the same problem as the USA.
7. Allen, M. (2017, November 9). Sean Parker unloads on Facebook: “God only knows what it’s doing to our children’s
brains.” Axios. Retrieved from https://www.axios.com/sean-parker-unloads-on-facebook-god-only-knows-what-itsdoing-to-our-childrens-brains-1513306792-f855e7b4-4e99-4d60-8d51-2775559c2671.html
8. Twenge (2017), chapter 2.
9. Twenge (2017), p. 3
10. See Twenge (2017), Appendix B, Figures B1 and B2. The appendix is online; it can be retrieved at
http://www.jeantwenge.com/wp-content/uploads/2017/08/igen-appendix.pdf
11. Twenge (2017), chapter 4. See also: Twenge, Joiner, Rogers, & Martin (2017).
12. In 1994, Nolen-Hoeksema & Girgus (1994) found “no gender differences in depression rates in prepubescent
children, but, after the age of 15, girls and women [were] about twice as likely to be depressed as boys and men.” In a
2017 paper, Salk, Hyde, & Abramson (2017) found that gender differences emerged at twelve years old, which was
earlier than had been previously thought.

13. The criteria are that a person reports having at least five out of nine symptoms nearly every day for a two-week
period, as described in Hunter & Tice (2016). Retrieved from
https://www.samhsa.gov/data/sites/default/files/NSDUH-MethodSummDefsHTML-2015/NSDUHMethodSummDefsHTML-2015/NS DUH-MethodSummDefs-2015.htm#b4-8
14. Hacking (1991), as described in Haslam (2016).
15. You can download the date and report at https://www.CDC.gov/injury/wisqars/fatal.html
16. Levinson-King, R. (2017, March 13). Teen suicide on the rise among Canadian girls. Retrieved from
http://www.bbc.com/news/world-us-canada-39210463
17. Office for National Statistics (UK). (2017, December 18). Suicides in the UK: 2016 registrations (point 6: Suicides in
the UK by age). Retrieved from
https://www.ons.gov.uk/peoplepopulationandcommunity/birthsdeathsandmarriages/deaths/bulletins/suicidesintheunitedkingdom/2016
in-the-uk-by-age
18. Mercado, Holland, Leemis, Stone, & Wang (2017).
19. Twenge, Joiner, Rogers, & Martin (2018).
20. Vigen, T. (n.d.). Spurious correlations. Retrieved from http://www.tylervigen.com/spurious-correlations
21. If children have papers to write, or other homework that requires the use of a computer, that time does not appear
to be correlated with depression.
22. Twenge (2017), pp. 82 and 84. For more in-depth analysis, see: Twenge et al. (2018).
23. Twenge discusses the issue of reverse correlation (that is, that depression causes teens to spend more time on
screens) and links to studies suggesting that it is not the cause of the association. One of the studies she discusses was
a true experiment using random assignment. People who were randomly assigned to give up Facebook for a week
reported feeling less depressed at the end of the study. See: Twenge, J. (2017, November 14). With teen mental health
deteriorating over five years, there’s a likely culprit. Retrieved from https://theconversation.com/with-teen-mentalhealth-deteriorating-over-five-years-theres-a-likely-culprit-86996
24. See discussion of eusociality and ultrasociality in Haidt (2012), chapter 9.
25. Twenge, Joiner, Rogers, & Martin (2018), p. 4.
26. Twenge (2017).
27. Twenge (2017).
28. Maccoby (1998).
29. Wood Rudulph, H. (2017, October 11). How women talk: Heather Wood Rudulph interviews Deborah Tannen. Los
Angeles Review of Books. Retrieved from https://lareviewofbooks.org/article/how-women-talk-heather-woodrudulph-interviews-deborah-tannen. Twenge echoes Tannen’s concern when she says, “Girls use social media more
often, giving them additional opportunities to feel excluded and lonely when they see their friends or classmates
getting together without them,” in Twenge (2017, September). Have smartphones destroyed a generation? The
Atlantic. Retrieved from https://www.theatlantic.com/magazine/archive/2017/09/has-the-smartphone-destroyed-ageneration/534198
30. Twenge (2017), Appendix F, figure F1. Online appendix can be retrieved from http://www.jeantwenge.com/wpcontent/uploads/2017/08/igen-appendix.pdf
31. Arata, E. (2016, August 1). The unexpected reason Snapchat’s “pretty” filters hurt your self-esteem. Elite Daily.
Retrieved from https://www.elitedaily.com/wellness/snapchat-filters-self-esteem/1570236
32. Jowett, V. (2017, July 10). Inside the Snapchat filter surgery boom. Cosmopolitan. Retrieved from
http://www.cosmopolitan.com/uk/beauty-hair/a9617028/celebrity-cosmetic-surgery-snapchat-filter-boom
33. Crick & Grotpeter (1995).
34. For example: Thielking, M. (2017, February 8). Surging demand for mental health care jams college services.
Scientific American. Retrieved from https://www.scientificamerican.com/article/surging-demand-for-mental-healthcare-jams-college-services. See also: Peterson, A. (2016, October 10). Students flood college mental-health centers.
The Wall Street Journal. Retrieved from http://www.wsj.com/articles/students-flood-college-mental-health-centers1476120902. See also: Tugend, A. (2017, June 7). Colleges get proactive in addressing depression on campus. The
New York Times. Retrieved from https://www.nytimes.com/2017/06/07/education/colleges-get-proactive-inaddressing-depression-on-campus.html
35. Center for Collegiate Mental Health, Pennsylvania State University. (2016). 2016 annual report. Retrieved from
https://sites.psu.edu/ccmh/files/2017/01/2016-Annual-Report-FINAL_2016_01_09-1gc2hj6.pdf
36. Higher Education Institute (HERI). The question was only added in 2010, and is asked only every other year. The
exact question wording is: “Do you have any of the following disabilities or medical conditions? (Mark Yes or No for
each item.)” The survey then lists seven different types of disabilities and conditions, including “Psychological
disorder (depression, etc.)” with the option to select “Yes” or “No” for each. Survey instruments and data can be
accessed at https://heri.ucla.edu/heri-data-archive

37. Reetz, D. R., Bershad, C., LeViness, P., & Whitlock, M. (2017). The Association for University and College
Counseling Center Directors annual survey. Retrieved from
https://www.aucccd.org/assets/documents/aucccd%202016%20monograph%20-%20public.pdf. See also summary
and graph in: Tate, E. (2017, March 29). Anxiety on the rise. Inside Higher Ed. Retrieved from
https://www.insidehighered.com/news/2017/03/29/anxiety-and-depression-are-primary-concerns-students-seekingcounseling-services
38. One study at a diverse, urban university found that 38% of the students in the study reported a history of
deliberately self-harming at least once, 18% reported having intentionally self-harmed at least ten times, and 10%
reported having deliberately self-harmed more than 100 times. Gratz, Conrad, & Roeter (2002). See also appendix F
in the online appendices for Twenge (2017); Twenge offers additional graphs showing mental health outcomes from
the American College Health Association Survey and the Youth Risk Behavior Surveillance System. The appendices
can be retrieved from http://www.jeantwenge.com/wp-content/uploads/2017/08/igen-appendix.pdf
39. Zhiguo & Fang (2014).
40. Shin & Liberzon (2010).
41. Gotlib & Joormann (2010).
42. Prociuk, Breen, & Lussier. (1976). See also: Costello (1982).
43. Peterson, Maier, & Seligman (1993). See also: Seligman (1990).
44. Chen, Coccaro, & Jacobson (2012).
45. Clark, Algoe, & Green (2018).

Chapter 8: Paranoid Parenting
1. Denizet-Lewis, B. (2017, October 11). Why are more American teenagers than ever suffering from severe anxiety?
The New York Times. Retrieved from https://www.nytimes.com/2017/10/11/magazine/why-are-more-americanteenagers-than-ever-suffering-from-severe-anxiety.html
2. Skenazy, L. (2008, April 1). Why I let my 9-year-old ride the subway alone. The New York Sun. Retrieved from
http://www.nysun.com/opinion/why-i-let-my-9-year-old-ride-subway-alone/73976
3. Skenazy, L. (2015, January 16). I let my 9-year-old ride the subway alone. I got labeled the “World’s Worst Mom.”
The Washington Post. Retrieved from https://www.washingtonpost.com/posteverything/wp/2015/01/16/i-let-my-9year-old-ride-the-subway-alone-i-got-labeled-the-worlds-worst-mom/?utm_term=.7cb ce60ca0e0
4. The main suspect in the case was not convicted until 2017. For a summary, see: McKinley, J. C. (2017, April 18).
Pedro Hernandez gets 25 years to life in murder of Etan Patz. The New York Times. Retrieved from
https://www.nytimes.com/2017/04/18/nyregion/pedro-hernandez-etan-patz-sentencing.html
5. Lafrance, A. (2017, February 14). When bad news was printed on milk cartons. The Atlantic. Retrieved from
https://www.theatlantic.com/technology/archive/2017/02/when-bad-news-was-printed-on-milk-cartons/516675
6. National Crime Information Center. (n.d.) 2016 NCIC missing person and unidentified person statistics. Retrieved
from https://www.fbi.gov/file-repository/2016-ncic-missing-person-and-unidentified-person-statistics.pdf/view
7. Polly Klaas Foundation. (n.d.). National child kidnapping facts. Retrieved from
http://www.pollyklaas.org/about/national-child-kidnapping.html
8. ChildStats.gov. (n.d.). POP1 Child population: Number of children (in millions) ages 0–17 in the United States by
age, 1950–2016 and projected 2017–2050. Retrieved from
https://www.childstats.gov/americaschildren/tables/pop1.asp
9. Simpson, K. (2010, November 27). Dispelled kidnap myths do little to allay parents’ fears. The Denver Post. Retrieved
from http://www.denverpost.com/2010/11/27/dispelled-kidnap-myths-do-little-to-allay-parents-fears
10. For more on kidnapping trends, see: U.S. Department of Justice. (2016, June 14). Number of child abductions by
strangers unchanged over past decade and a half; Fewer end in homicide. Retrieved from
http://www.unh.edu/ccrc/Presspacket/Stereotypical%20Kidnapping%20.pdf. Three interesting points: (1) Ninetytwo percent of kidnapped children were returned safely to their families in 2011, compared with just 57% in 1997.
(Technology, such as cell phone tracking, has been a big help to law enforcement.) (2) Four out of five children
abducted by a stranger in 2011 did not live in a home with two parents (biological or adoptive). (3) One third of the
children abducted were never reported missing. No adult was taking responsibility for them; they were kids who fell
through the cracks. See: Flores, J. R. (2002, October). Nonfamily abducted children: National estimates and
characteristics. Retrieved from http://www.pollyklaas.org/media/pdf/NISMARTIInonfamily.pdf
11. FBI Criminal Justice Information Services Division. (n.d.). Preliminary semiannual uniform crime report, January–
June, 2015. Retrieved from https://ucr.fbi.gov/crime-in-the-u.s/2015/preliminary-semiannual-uniform-crimereport-januaryjune-2015

12. Kurutz, S. (2004, October 24). The age of the mugger. The New York Times. Retrieved from
http://www.nytimes.com/2004/10/24/nyregion/thecity/the-age-of-the-mugger.html
13. At least, of missing white children. From 1979 to 1981, there was a horrific cluster of more than twenty-five fatal
kidnappings of black children in Atlanta that became known as the Atlanta Child Murders. This killing spree
garnered less national attention than the murders of Patz and Walsh, which occurred during those years.
14. There is no consensus among criminologists as to why crime went down so quickly all across America. Jon believes
that the phaseout of leaded gasoline in the late 1970s and early 1980s is one major factor. See: Drum, K. (2016,
February 11). Lead: America’s real criminal element. Mother Jones. Retrieved from
http://www.motherjones.com/environment/2016/02/lead-exposure-gasoline-crime-increase-children-health
15. Infoplease. (n.d.) Homicide rate per 100,000, 1950–2015. Retrieved from
https://www.infoplease.com/us/crime/homicide-rate-1950-2014
16. Stapleton, A. C. (2015, February 6). Police: 6-year-old boy “kidnapped” for being too nice to strangers. CNN.
Retrieved from http://www.cnn.com/2015/02/05/us/missouri-fake-kidnapping/index.html
17. Berchelmann, K. (2017, May 4). When can my child use the public restroom alone? HealthyChildren.org. Retrieved
from https://www.healthychildren.org/English/tips-tools/ask-the-pediatrician/Pages/When-can-my-child-use-thepublic-restroom-alone.aspx
18. Lowbrow, Y. (2014, June 9). 8 reasons children of the 1970s should all be dead. Retrieved from
https://flashbak.com/8-reasons-children-of-the-1970s-should-all-be-dead-323
19. YOURS News. (2012, February 20). Seatbelts—Saving thousands of lives around the world everyday . . . [Blog post].
Retrieved from http://www.youthforroadsafety.org/news-blog/news-blogitem/t/seatbelts_saving_thousands_of_lives_around_the_world_everyday
20. Ganti et al. (2013).
21. DeNoon, D. J. (2003, May 13). Quit smoking so your kids won’t start. Web MD. Retrieved from
https://www.webmd.com/smoking-cessation/news/20030513/quit-smoking-so-your-kids-wont-start
22. National Institute for Occupational Safety and Health. (n.d.). LEAD: Information for workers—Health problems
caused by lead. Retrieved from https://www.cdc.gov/niosh/topics/lead/health.html
23. Christakis (2016), p. 131.
24. Taleb (2007).
25. For more on these backfire effects, see Greg Ip’s perfectly titled book Foolproof: Why Safety Can Be Dangerous and
How Danger Makes Us Safe. Ip (2015).
26. Skenazy (2008); see n. 2.
27. J. Lythcott-Haims (personal communication May 26, 2017).
28. Estroff Marano, H. (2004, November 1). A nation of wimps. Psychology Today. Retrieved from
https://www.psychologytoday.com/articles/200411/nation-wimps
29. J. Lythcott-Haims (personal communication May 26, 2017).
30. This is called the demographic transition. See: Grover, D. (2014, October 13). What is the Demographic Transition
Model? PopEd Blog. Retrieved from https://www.populationeducation.org/content/what-demographic-transitionmodel
31. Parker, K., & Wang, W. (2013, March 14). Modern parenthood: Roles of moms and dads converge as they balance
work and family. Pew Research Center. Retrieved from http://www.pewsocialtrends.org/2013/03/14/modernparenthood-roles-of-moms-and-dads-converge-as-they-balance-work-and-family
32. L. Skenazy (personal communication, May 4, 2017).
33. Skenazy, L. (2015, June 11). 11-year-old boy played in his yard. CPS took him, felony charge for parents. Reason.
Retrieved from http://reason.com/blog/2015/06/11/11-year-old-boy-played-in-his-yard-cps-t
34. WFSB Staff. (2014, July 9). Bristol mother charged with leaving child unattended in car. Eyewitness News 3.
Retrieved from http://wfsb.com/story/25982048/bristol-mother-charged-with-leaving-child-unattendd-in-care. (For
more stories like this, visit https://letgrow.org/blog)
35. Skenazy, L. (2016, June 17) “16 is the appropriate age to allow children to be outside by themselves”—New Albany,
Ohio, police chief. Free-Range Kids. Retrieved from http://www.freerangekids.com/16-is-the-appropriate-age-toallow-children-to-be-outside-by-themselves-new-albany-ohio-police-chief
36. Lareau (2011), p. 3.
37. Putnam (2015), p. 117.
38. Putnam (2015), p. 117.
39. DeLoache et al. (2010).
40. The website for the research project is hosted by the Centers for Disease Control, at
http://www.cdc.gov/violenceprevention/acestudy
41. Putnam (2015), p.112.

42. Chetty, Friedman, Saez, Turner, & Yagen (2017). See a summary of that paper in this infographic: Some colleges
have more students from the top 1 percent than the bottom 60. Find yours. (2017, January 18). The New York Times.
Retrieved from https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2017/01/18/upshot/some-colleges-have-more-students-fromthe-top-1-percent-than-the-bottom-60.html
43. L. Skenazy (personal communication, May 4, 2017).

Chapter 9: The Decline of Play
1. LaFreniere (2011).
2. LaFreniere (2011), p. 479, asserts that “[i]n games involving chasing, children seem to prefer the fleeing position (e.g.,
in the game of tag and in all games modeled after tag, the preferred position is to be chased), which suggests that
such play has more to do with our legacy as prey than our legacy as hunters.”
3. LaFreniere (2011), p. 465. See also: Sandseter & Kennair (2011). See also: Gray, P. (2014, April 7). Risky play: Why
children love it and need it. Psychology Today. Retrieved from https://www.psychologytoday.com/blog/freedomlearn/201404/risky-play-why-children-love-it-and-need-it
4. Einon, Morgan, & Kibbler (1978). See also: Hol, Berg, Ree, & Spruijt (1999) for another experimental study with rat
pups, and see Mustoe, Taylor, Birnie, Huffman, & French (2014) for a correlational study with marmosets. See a
review of this literature in Gray (in press).
5. Black, Jones, Nelson, & Greenough (1998).
6. Johnson & Newport (1989). For a review of the famous case of the feral child “Genie,” see Curtiss (1977). For deaf
children things work the same way, with signs. Spoken words are not essential, but communication with others is.
7. This, at least, is the argument made by many researchers who study play, including Gray (in press), LaFreniere
(2011), and Sandseter & Kennair (2011). We note that there is no direct experimental proof of this strong version of
the claim—that play deprivation in childhood will alter adult personality. Controlled experiments such as the ones
we described with rat pups can never be done with humans. In the rest of this chapter, we show why we think the
claim is plausible and likely to be true.
8. Gray (2011). See also: Gray (in press).
9. Sandseter & Kennair (2011), p. 275.
10. Gray (2011), p. 444.
11. Singer, Singer, D’Agostino, & DeLong (2009), cited in Gray (2011).
12. Hirsh-Pasek, Golinkoff, Berk, & Singer (2009).
13. Gray (2011), p. 456.
14. Hofferth & Sandberg (2001), cited in Gray (2011).
15. As shown by mediation analyses in Twenge et al. (2018), which found that all forms of screen time are associated
with negative mental health outcomes. Peter Gray, however, takes a more positive view of social interaction mediated
by screens. He believes that it is real social interaction, and that multiplayer video games are a form of play. He also
notes that online social interaction has the advantage of occurring, typically, without any adult supervision. He
agrees, however, that online interaction lacks the benefits of vigorous physical play and that some forms of online
interaction may turn out to be harmful to mental health. P. Gray (personal communication, February 8, 2018).
16. Hofferth & Sandberg (2001).
17. See review in Shumaker, H. (2016, March 5). Homework is wrecking our kids: The research is clear, let’s ban
elementary homework. Salon. Retrieved from
https://www.salon.com/2016/03/05/homework_is_wrecking_our_kids_the_research_is_clear_lets_ban_elementary_homework
See also: Marzano, R., & Pickering, D. (2007, March). Special topic: The case for and against homework. Educational
Leadership, 64(6), 74–79. Retrieved from
https://www.lincnet.org/cms/lib05/MA01001239/Centricity/Domain/108/Homework.pdf. See also: Cooper, Lindsay,
Nye, & Greathouse (1998). See also: Cooper, Civey Robinson, & Patall (2006). See also: Cooper, Steenbergen-Hu, &
Dent (2012).
18. “In the last 20 years, homework has increased only in the lower grade levels, and this increase is associated with
neutral (and sometimes negative) effects on student achievement.” National Education Association. (n.d.). Research
spotlight on homework. Retrieved from http://www.nea.org/tools/16938.htm
19. L. Skenazy (personal communication, January 23, 2018).
20. Clements (2004), cited in Gray (2011).
21. Whitley, C. (2011, August 1). Is your child ready for first grade: 1979 edition. ChicagoNow. Retrieved from
http://www.chicagonow.com/little-kids-big-city/2011/08/is-your-child-ready-for-first-grade-1979-edition. (We
thank Erika Chistakis for pointing it out to us.)

22. Whitley (2011); see n. 21.
23. St. Theresa’s Catholic School (Austin, TX). (2012, January). Expectations for incoming first graders. Retrieved from
https://www.st-theresa.org/wp-content/uploads/2012/02/1st_Expectations.pdf
24. E. Christakis (personal communication, October 21, 2017).
25. Christakis (2016).
26. Gopnik, A. (2011, March 16). Why preschool shouldn’t be like school: New research shows that teaching kids more
and more, at ever-younger ages, may backfire. Slate. Retrieved from
http://www.slate.com/articles/double_x/doublex/2011/03/why_preschool_shouldnt_be_like_school.html. See also:
Gray, P. (2015, May 5). Early academic training produces long-term harm. Psychology Today. Retrieved from
https://www.psychologytoday.com/blog/freedom-learn/201505/early-academic-training-produces-long-term-harm
27. Bassok, Latham, & Rorem (2016).
28. Common Core State Standards Initiative. (n.d.). Introduction to Common Core. Retrieved from
http://www.corestandards.org/Math/Content/introduction
29. Common Core State Standards Initiative. (n.d.). English language arts standards » Reading: Foundational skills »
Kindergarten. Retrieved from http://www.corestandards.org/ELA-Literacy/RF/K
30. E. Christakis (personal communication, June 2, 2017).
31. “Ironically, when today’s kindergarten and first-grade teachers are asked to name the school-readiness skills most
important for preschoolers to master, they invariably still rank social and emotional skills, such as being able to take
turns or listen to a friend, above pre-academic skills, such as number and letter identification. But parents often see
things very differently.” Christakis (2016), p. 7.
32. Pew Research Center. (2015, December 17). Parenting in America: Children’s extracurricular activities. Retrieved
from http://www.pewsocialtrends.org/2015/12/17/5-childrens-extracurricular-activities
33. Mose (2016).
34. Scholarship America. (2011, August 25). Make your extracurricular activities pay off. U.S. News & World Report.
Retrieved from https://www.usnews.com/education/blogs/the-scholarship-coach/2011/08/25/make-yourextracurricular-activities-pay-off
35. Princeton Review. (n.d.). 14 summer activities to boost your college application. Retrieved from
https://www.princetonreview.com/college-advice/summer-activities-for-college-applications
36. Yale University Office of Institutional Research. (2016, November 30). Summary of Yale College admissions class of
1986 to class of 2020. Retrieved from https://oir.yale.edu/sites/default/files/w033_fresh_admissions.pdf
37. Deresiewicz (2015), p. 39.
38. J. Lythcott-Haims (personal communication, May 26, 2017). As Lenore Skenazy put it, these parents “are stalked by
the twin fears that their children will be kidnapped . . . or not get into Harvard.” L. Skenazy (personal
communication, January 23, 2018).
39. Morrison, P. (2015, October 28). How “helicopter parenting” is ruining America’s children. Los Angeles Times.
Retrieved from http://www.latimes.com/opinion/op-ed/la-oe-morrison-lythcott-haims-20151028-column.html
40. A. Duckworth (personal communication, March 19, 2018).
41. Bruni, F. (2016, January 19). Rethinking college admissions. The New York Times. Retrieved from
https://www.nytimes.com/2016/01/20/opinion/rethinking-college-admissions.html
42. Rosin, H. (2015, November 20). The Silicon Valley suicides. The Atlantic. Retrieved from
https://www.theatlantic.com/magazine/archive/2015/12/the-silicon-valley-suicides/413140
43. Spencer, K. (2017, April 5). It takes a suburb: A town struggles to ease student stress. The New York Times. Retrieved
from https://www.nytimes.com/2017/04/05/education/edlife/overachievers-student-stress-in-high-school-.html?
_r=0
44. Farrell, A., McDevitt, J., & Austin, R. (2015). Youth risk behavior survey Lexington High School—2015 results:
Executive summary. Retrieved from
https://lps.lexingtonma.org/cms/lib2/MA01001631/Centricity/Domain/547/YRBSLHSExecSummary08Mar16.pdf.
See also: Luthar & Latendresse (2005). See also: Chawla, I., & Njoo, L. (2016, July 21). CDC releases preliminary
findings on Palo Alto suicide clusters. The Stanford Daily. Retrieved from
https://www.stanforddaily.com/2016/07/21/cdc-releases-preliminary-findings-on-palo-alto-suicide-clusters
45. Chetty, Friedman, Saez, Turner, & Yagen (2017). See a summary of that paper in this infographic: Some colleges
have more students from the top 1 percent than the bottom 60. Find yours. (2017, January 18). The New York Times.
Retrieved from https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2017/01/18/upshot/some-colleges-have-more-students-fromthe-top-1-percent-than-the-bottom-60.html
46. Quoted in Brody, J. E. (2015, January 19). Parenting advice from “America’s worst mom.” The New York Times.
Retrieved from https://well.blogs.nytimes.com/2015/01/19/advice-from-americas-worst-mom
47. Horwitz (2015).

48. Ostrom, E. (1990).
49. Ostrom, V. (1997).
50. Horwitz (2015), p. 10.
51. Iyengar & Krupenkin (2018).
52. Ortiz-Ospina, E., & Roser, M. (2017). Trust. Retrieved from https://ourworldindata.org/trust
53. Horwitz (2015), p. 3.
54. We note that this advice is less needed for students from less privileged backgrounds, who are more likely to
experience unfairness and “bad luck” as a normal part of life.
55. Reilly, K. (2017, July 5). “I wish you bad luck.” Read Supreme Court Justice John Roberts’s unconventional speech to
his son’s graduating class. Time. Retrieved from http://time.com/4845150/chief-justice-john-robertscommencement-speech-transcript

Chapter 10: The Bureaucracy of Safetyism
1. De Tocqueville (1839/2012), book 4, chapter 6.
2. FIRE letter to Northern Michigan University, August 25, 2016. (2016, September 19). Retrieved from
https://www.thefire.org/fire-letter-to-northern-michigan-university-august-25-2016
3. THE “I CARE PROJECT”: Revise NMU Student Self-Destructive Behavior Policy. (n.d.). Change.org [Petition].
Retrieved from https://www.change.org/p/northern-michigan-university-the-i-care-project-revise-nmu-studentself-destructive-behavior-policy
4. Singal, J. (2016, September 22). A university threatened to punish students who discussed their suicidal thoughts with
friends (Updated). The Cut. Retrieved from https://www.thecut.com/2016/09/a-school-is-threatening-to-punish-itssuicidal-students.html
Northern Michigan has since revised its policy; it no longer sends that letter, and by January 2016, it stopped
prohibiting students from discussing self-harm with peers. See: Northern Michigan University. (2016). Northern
Michigan University practice concerning self-destructive students changed January 2016. Retrieved from
http://www.nmu.edu/mc/current-mental-health-communication
5. National Center for Educational Statistics (1993), p. 64.
6. Fast Facts: Back to School Statistics. (n.d.). National Center for Education Statistics. Retrieved from
https://nces.ed.gov/fastfacts/display.asp?id=372
7. Digest of Education Statistics. (2016). Tables 333.10 (Revenues of public institutions) and (333.40) (Revenues of
private institutions). National Center for Education Statistics. Retrieved from
https://nces.ed.gov/programs/digest/current_tables.asp
8. Gross Domestic Product 2016. (2017, December 15). World Bank Development Indicators Database. Retrieved from
https://databank.worldbank.org/data/download/GDP.pdf
9. Digest of Education Statistics. (2016). Table 333.90 (Endowments). National Center for Education Statistics.
Retrieved from https://nces.ed.gov/programs/digest/d16/tables/dt16_333.90.asp?current=yes
10. Of the top twenty-five universities as listed by Times Higher Education, the percentage of international students
ranges from 16% at the University of Michigan to 45% at Carnegie Mellon. World University Rankings 2018. Times
Higher Education. Retrieved from https://www.timeshighereducation.com/world-university-rankings/2018/worldranking#!/page/0/length/25/sort_by/rank/sort_order/asc/cols/stats
11. World University Rankings 2018; see n. 10. Or perhaps it is nineteen of the top twenty-five. See also: Best Global
Universities Rankings. (2018). U.S. News & World Report. Retrieved from https://www.usnews.com/education/bestglobal-universities/rankings
12. Kerr (1963).
13. “Universities’ executive, administrative, and managerial offices grew 15 percent during the recession, even as
budgets were cut and tuition was increased.” Marcus, J. (2016, October 6). The reason behind colleges’ ballooning
bureaucracies. The Atlantic. Retrieved from https://www.theatlantic.com/education/archive/2016/10/ballooningbureaucracies-shrinking-checkbooks/503066
14. See, for example, Catropa, D., & Andrews, M. (2013, February 8). Bemoaning the corporatization of higher
education. Inside Higher Ed. Retrieved from https://www.insidehighered.com/blogs/stratedgy/bemoaningcorporatization-higher-education
15. “Since 1975, according to a 2014 report from the American Association of University Professors, full-time
administrative positions grew by 369 percent, whereas full-time tenure-track faculty grew by 23 percent and parttime faculty by 286 percent.” Braswell, S. (2016, April 24). The fightin’ administrators: The birth of a college
bureaucracy. Point Taken. Retrieved from http://www.pbs.org/wgbh/point-taken/blog/ozy-fightin-administrators-

birth-college-bureaucracy. See also: Christensen, K. (2015, October 17). Is UC spending too little on teaching, too
much on administration? Los Angeles Times. Retrieved from http://www.latimes.com/local/education/la-me-ucspending-20151011-story.html
16. Campos, P. F. (2015, April 4). The real reason college tuition costs so much. The New York Times. Retrieved from
https://www.nytimes.com/2015/04/05/opinion/sunday/the-real-reason-college-tuition-costs-so-much.html
17. Catropa & Andrews (2013); see n. 15. See also: Lewis (2007), pp. 4–5. See also: McArdle, M. (2015, August 13).
Sheltered students go to college, avoid education. Bloomberg View. Retrieved from
https://www.bloomberg.com/view/articles/2015-08-13/sheltered-students-go-to-college-avoid-education
18. Ginsberg (2011). Chapter 1, section “Shared Governance?” paragraphs 2–6.
19. Ginsberg (2011). Chapter 1, section “Professors and Administrators?” paragraph 16.
20. In one of the very few exceptions we know of, Oberlin president Marvin Krislov refused to accept a list of “non
negotiable” demands. See Jaschik, S. (2016, January 21). Oberlin’s president says no. Inside Higher Ed. Retrieved
from https://www.insidehighered.com/news/2016/01/21/oberlins-president-refuses-negotiate-student-list-demands
21. Adler, E. (2018, March 15). Students think they can suppress speech because colleges treat them like customers. The
Washington Post. Retrieved from http://wapo.st/2phMwCB?tid=ss_tw&utm_term=.75b5e44fa1d0
22. See figure 5 on page 11 of Desrochers, D. M., & Hurlburt, S. (2016, January). Trends in college spending: 2003–2013.
American Institutes for Research. Delta Cost Project. Retrieved from
https://www.deltacostproject.org/sites/default/files/products/154626%20Final01%20Delta%20Cost%20Project%20College%20Spending%2011131.406.P0.02.001%20....pdf
23. Carlson, S. (2013, January 28). What’s the payoff for the “country club” college? The Chronicle of Higher Education.
Retrieved from https://www.chronicle.com/blogs/buildings/whats-the-payoff-for-the-country-club-college/32477
[inactive]. See also: College Ranker. (n.d.). Colleges as country clubs: Today’s pampered college students. Retrieved
from http://www.collegeranker.com/features/colleges-as-country-clubs. See also: Jacob, B., McCall, B. & Stange, K.
M. (2013, January). College as country club: Do colleges cater to students’ preferences for consumption? National
Bureau of Economic Research. Retrieved from http://www.nber.org/papers/w18745.pdf. Forbes poked fun at the
practice by comparing colleges and country clubs to “Club Fed” minimum-security correctional facilities. Pierce, K.
(2014, July 29). College, country club or prison? Forbes. Retrieved from https://www.forbes.com/specialreport/2014/country-college-prion.html
24. A 2013 survey by NIRSA (formerly the National Intramural-Recreational Sports Association) found ninety-two
schools with pending recreation center projects totaling $1.7 billion. Cited in Rubin, C. (2014, September 19).
Making a splash: College recreation now includes pool parties and river rides. The New York Times. Retrieved from
https://www.nytimes.com/2014/09/21/fashion/college-recreation-now-includes-pool-parties-and-river-rides.html.
See also: Koch, J. V. (2018, January 9). Opinion: No college kid needs a water park to study. The New York Times.
Retrieved from https://www.nytimes.com/2018/01/09/opinion/trustees-tuition-lazy-rivers.html
25. Stripling, J. (2017, October 15). The lure of the lazy river. The Chronicle of Higher Education. Retrieved from
https://www.chronicle.com/article/The-Lure-of-the-Lazy-River/241434 [inactive]
26. Papish v. Bd. of Curators of the Univ. of Missouri et al., 410 U.S. 667 (1973) (reinstating a student expelled for
distributing an underground student newspaper with an offensive cartoon and headline); Texas v. Johnson, 491 U.S.
397 (1989) (flag burning).
27. For simplicity, we’ll use the term “administrators” to include those who run the university, and all the deans and
offices that have anything to do with student life. This includes much (but not all of) the professional staff on campus
other than the faculty—generally the people students mean when they talk about “the administration” of a university.
28. Greg’s first book, Unlearning Liberty (Lukianoff 2014), covering campuses from around 2001 to 2012, presents
dozens of examples of administrators overreacting.
29. After placing the professor on leave and forcing him to undergo a psychiatric evaluation, the college eventually
rescinded its punishment. See: Victory: College backtracks after punishing professor for “Game of Thrones” picture.
(2014, October 28). FIRE. Retrieved from https://www.thefire.org/victory-college-backtracks-punishing-professorgame-thrones-picture
30. College declares Haymarket Riot reference a violent threat to college president. (2015, June 8). FIRE. Retrieved from
https://www.thefire.org/college-declares-haymarket-riot-reference-a-violent-threat-to-college-president. FIRE sent
two letters to Oakton, but nothing further occurred in this case; the school didn’t retract its cease-and-desist letter,
but no formal action was taken against the professor.
31. Harris, S. (2016, September 1). Speech code of the month: Drexel University. FIRE. Retrieved from
https://www.thefire.org/speech-code-of-the-month-drexel-university
32. FIRE rates colleges’ speech codes as “red light,” “yellow light,” or “green light.” (FIRE’s speech code ratings are
explained in full at https://www.thefire.org/spotlight/using-the-spotlight-database.) The University of West
Alabama’s “red light” policies are still in effect, including the ban on harsh text messages or insults. Jacksonville

State’s speech codes have changed over the years; most recently in 2017. It now has an overall yellow light rating.
You can see which colleges are rated as red, yellow, or green at https://www.thefire.org/spotlight. See also: (n.d.).
Spotlight: Jacksonville State University. Retrieved from https://www.thefire.org/schools/jacksonville-state-university.
See also: (n.d.). Spotlight: University of West Alabama. Retrieved from https://www.thefire.org/schools/universityof-west-alabama
33. Harris, S. (2009, May 29). McNeese State revises “public forum” policy but still prohibits “derogatory” speech. FIRE.
Retrieved from https://www.thefire.org/mcneese-state-revises-public-forum-policy-but-still-prohibits-derogatoryspeech
34. Univ. of Cincinnati Chapter of Young Americans for Liberty v. Williams, 2012 U.S. Dist. LEXIS 80967 (S.D. Ohio
June 12, 2012).
35. You can see a wide variety of campus codes at: Spotlight Database and Activism Portal. (2018). FIRE. Retrieved from
https://www.thefire.org/spotlight
36. In the fifteen years between September 12, 2001, and December 31, 2016, there were eighty-five “violent extremist”
attacks in the United States, an average of less than half a dozen per year. Valverde, M. (2017, August 16). A look at
the data on domestic terrorism and who’s behind it. PolitiFact. Retrieved from http://www.politifact.com/truth-ometer/article/2017/aug/16/look-data-domestic-terrorism-and-whos-behind-it
37. The webpage listed on the signs explains: “The New York University Bias Response Line provides a mechanism
through which members of our community can share or report experiences and concerns of bias, discrimination, or
harassing behavior that may occur within our community.” NYU Bias Response Line. (n.d.). Retrieved from
http://www.nyu.edu/about/policies-guidelines-compliance/equal-opportunity/bias-response.html
38. FIRE. (2017). 2017 Report on Bias Reporting Systems. [Blog post]. Retrieved from https://www.thefire.org/firstamendment-library/special-collections/fire-guides/report-on-bias-reporting-systems-2017
39. See a review of such biases in Haidt (2006), chapter 2.
40. See Pappano, L. (2017, October 31). In a volatile climate on campus, professors teach on tenterhooks. The New York
Times. Retrieved from https://www.nytimes.com/2017/10/31/education/edlife/liberal-teaching-amid-partisandivide.html. See also: Belkin, D. (2017, February 27). College faculty’s new focus: Don’t offend. The Wall Street
Journal. Retrieved from https://www.wsj.com/articles/college-facultys-new-focus-dont-offend-1488200404
41. Suk Gersen, J. (2014, December 15). The trouble with teaching rape law. The New Yorker. Retrieved from
https://www.newyorker.com/news/news-desk/trouble-teaching-rape-law
42. Steinbaugh, A. (2016, July 7). University of Northern Colorado defends, modifies “Bias Response Team” as criticism
mounts and recording emerges. Retrieved from https://www.thefire.org/university-of-northern-colorado-biasresponse-team-recording-emerges
43. Melchior, J.K. (2016, July 5). Exclusive: Transcript of bias response team conversation with censored professor. Heat
Street (via Archive.org). Retrieved from https://web.archive.org/web/20160805130848/https://heatst.com/culturewars/exclusive-transcript-of-bias-response-team-conversation-with-censored-professor [inactive]
44. Note that this is very similar to the case of Lindsay Shepherd at Wilfrid Laurier University in Canada. Shepherd
showed a clip from a televised debate without condemning, in advance, one of the sides of the debate. It can be risky
to stage a debate in class if any student feels strongly that one side is correct. See: Grinberg, R. (2017, November 23).
Lindsay Shepherd and the potential for heterodoxy at Wilfrid Laurier University. Heterodox Academy. Retrieved
from https://heterodoxacademy.org/lindsay-shepherd-and-the-potential-for-heterodoxy-at-wilfrid-laurieruniversity
45. As FIRE’s Adam Steinbaugh notes, “academic freedom chilled politely is still academic freedom chilled.” See:
Steinbaugh, A. (2016, July 7); see note 2.
46. Or sometimes not well intended. Given the political dynamics of many campuses, which we described in chapters 4
and 5, bias response tools can easily be used in malicious ways. In the early days of these systems, in 2009, one of the
students who worked on the Bias Response Team at California Polytechnic State University admitted in an interview
that one target of the system would be the “teacher who isn’t politically correct or is hurtful in their actions or
words.” In a case at John Carroll University, several students used the school’s bias response apparatus to target one
student in what appeared to be a prank. See: Cal Poly suspends reporting on “politically incorrect” faculty and
students. (2009, June 1). FIRE. Retrieved from https://www.thefire.org/cal-poly-suspends-reporting-on-politicallyincorrect-faculty-and-students-2. See also: John Carroll University. (2015, December). Bias reports 2014–2015.
Retrieved from http://webmedia.jcu.edu/diversity/files/2015/12/2014-2015-Bias-Report-web-version.pdf
47. 20 U.S.C. § 1681 et seq. (1972).
48. See Davis v. Monroe County Board of Education, 526 U.S. 629, 633 (1999); Bryant v. Indep. Sch. Dist. No. I-38, 334
F.3d 928, 934 (10th Cir. 2003).
49. Civil Rights Act of 1964 § 7, 42 U.S.C. § 2000e-2 (a)(1) & (2) (1964) (prohibiting discrimination in hiring or
workplace on the basis of “race, color, religion, sex, or national origin”); Education Amendments of 1972 § 9, 20

U.S.C. § 1681(a) (1972) (prohibiting discrimination in education “on the basis of sex”).
50. Student wins Facebook.com case at University of Central Florida. (2006, March 6). FIRE. Retrieved from
https://www.thefire.org/student-wins-facebookcom-case-at-university-of-central-florida
51. Note that a school can and should use a very low threshold for making support or counseling services available for
anyone who feels harassed. The bar for punishing speakers accused of saying something harassing should be higher.
Under Title IX, for example, a reported victim is entitled to ameliorative steps before, and even without, a
determination of wrongdoing by the accused. The mistake, we believe, is to conflate the two, such that if one person
feels offended by a one-off speech act, another person should generally be charged with harassment. A school that
makes such a conflation is codifying and teaching the Untruth of Emotional Reasoning and encouraging moral
dependence.
52. Janitor/student Keith John Sampson received a letter informing him that he had been found guilty of racial
harassment for “openly reading the book related to a historically and racially abhorrent subject.” Lukianoff, G. (2008,
May 2). Judging a book by its cover—literally. Retrieved from https://www.thefire.org/judging-a-book-by-its-coverliterally-3
53. For examples, see Gluckman, N., Read B., Mangan, K. & Qulantan, B. (2017, November 3). Sexual harassment and
assault in higher ed: What’s happened since Weinstein. The Chronicle of Higher Education. Retrieved from
https://www.chronicle.com/article/Sexual-HarassmentAssault/241757; Anderson, M.D. (2017, October 19). How
campus racism could affect black students’ college enrollment. The Atlantic. Retrieved from
https://www.theatlantic.com/education/archive/2017/10/how-racism-could-affect-black-students-collegeenrollment/543360/; Berteaux, A. (2016, September 15). In the safe spaces on campus, no Jews allowed. The
Washington Post. Retrieved from https://www.washingtonpost.com/news/acts-of-faith/wp/2016/09/15/in-the-safespaces-on-campus-no-jews-allowed/?utm_term=.2bb76389a248
54. Silverglate, H. A. (1999, January 26). Memorandum to free speech advocates, University of Wisconsin. Retrieved
from https://www.thefire.org/memorandum-to-free-speech-advocates-university-of-wisconsin
55. Doe v. University of Michigan, 721 F.Supp. 852, 865 (E.D. Mich. 1989).
56. Corry v. Leland Stanford Junior University, No. 740309 (Cal. Super. Ct. Feb. 27, 1995) (slip op.).
57. Bhargava, A., & Jackson, G. (2013, May 9). Letter to President Royce Engstrom and University Counsel Lucy France,
Esq., University of Montana. U.S. Department of Justice, Civil Rights Division, & U.S. Department of Education,
Office for Civil Rights. Retrieved from https://www.justice.gov/sites/default/files/opa/legacy/2013/05/09/um-ltrfindings.pdf
58. Kipnis, L. (2015, February 27). Sexual paranoia strikes academe. The Chronicle of Higher Education. Retrieved from
https://www.chronicle.com/article/Sexual-Paranoia-Strikes/190351
59. During the investigation, Kipnis was told she could not involve a lawyer; she could not record her meetings with
investigators; and, initially, she was told she would not even be informed of the charges against her until she attended
the meetings. Cooke, R. (2017, April 2). Sexual paranoia on campus—and the professor at the eye of the storm. The
Guardian. Retrieved from https://www.theguardian.com/world/2017/apr/02/unwanted-advances-on-campus-usuniversity-professor-laura-kipnis-interview
60. Title IX Coordinating Committee response to online petition and ASG resolution. (2014, March 4). Northwestern
Now. Retrieved from https://news.northwestern.edu/stories/2014/03/title-ix-coordinating-committee-response-toonline-petition-and-asg-resolution
61. Suk Gersen, J. (2017, September 20). Laura Kipnis’s endless trial by Title IX. The New Yorker. Retrieved from
https://www.newyorker.com/news/news-desk/laura-kipniss-endless-trial-by-title-ix
62. A defamation suit filed against Kipnis by a student continues. Meisel, H. (2018, March 7). HarperCollins can’t
escape suit over prof’s assault book. Law360. Retrieved from
https://www.law360.com/articles/1019571/harpercollins-can-t-escape-suit-over-prof-s-assault-book
63. FIRE (Producer). (2016, April 6). In her own words: Laura Kipnis’s “Title IX inquisition” at Northwestern [Video
file]. Retrieved from https://youtu.be/vVGOp0IffOQ?t=8m58s
64. Campbell & Manning (2014). See also their expansion of this work in Campbell & Manning (2018).
65. Campbell & Manning (2014), p. 695.
66. Campbell & Manning (2014), p. 697.
67. Read the email from Erika Christakis here: FIRE (2015, October 30). Email from Erika Christakis: “Dressing
Yourselves,” email to Silliman College (Yale) students on Halloween costumes. FIRE. Retrieved from
https://www.thefire.org/email-from-erika-christakis-dressing-yourselves-email-to-silliman-college-yale-studentson-halloween-costumes

Chapter 11: The Quest for Justice

1. Rawls (1971), p. 3. Rawls was one of the leading political philosophers of the twentieth century, famous for asking
what kind of society we would design if we had to do it from behind a “veil of ignorance” as to what role we would
occupy in the society.
2. Data from Ghitza & Gelman (2014) is made interactive in Cox, A. (2014, July 7). How birth year influences political
views. The New York Times. Retrieved from https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2014/07/08/upshot/how-the-yearyou-were-born-influences-your-politics.html?_r=0
3. The year 1965 saw the passage of the Voting Rights Act, the Watts riot, the march on Selma, and an increase in
protests of the Vietnam War as America’s involvement intensified; 1972 saw the reelection of Richard Nixon over
the “peace candidate,” George McGovern, in a landslide—a crushing blow to many in the counterculture. Most
Americans born in 1954 could vote in that election; nobody born in 1955 was eligible.
4. Ghitza & Gelman (2014). The paper uses presidential approval ratings as an easily available proxy for the political
events occurring in each year—if the president is wildly popular during your late teens (and you’re white), you’re
more likely to vote for that party for the rest of your life. But the authors acknowledge that a variety of “political
shocks” are likely to have effects; for example, assassinations, riots, and so on. The model is more descriptive of white
voters than it is of black or Hispanic voters.
5. Pyramid Film Producers (Producer). (1969). The World of ’68 [Video file]. Retrieved from
https://archive.org/details/worldof68
6. Sloane, Baillargeon, and Premack (2012) found that twenty-one-month-old infants looked longer at these violations
of proportionality than at scenes where only the person who worked was rewarded. See review of the literature on
the early emergence of fairness in Bloom (2014).
7. Damon (1979); Kanngiesser & Warneken (2012).
8. Almas, Cappelen, Sorensen, & Tungodden (2010).
9. Starmans, Sheskin, & Bloom (2017).
10. See Adams (1963); Adams (1965); Huseman, Hatfield & Miles (1987); Walster, Walster, & Berscheid (1978).
11. Walster, Walster, & Berscheid (1978).
12. Ross & Sicoly (1979). See Fiske (1992) for discussion of how concerns about equality and proportionality vary across
relationships and contexts.
13. Adams & Rosenbaum (1962).
14. Lind & Tyler (1988). See also: Tyler & Blader (2014). See also: earlier work by Thibaut and Walker (1975).
15. Tyler & Huo (2002).
16. There is a line of research arguing that causality sometimes runs the other way: many people want to justify the
status quo, and this desire motivates them to rationalize existing injustices. See this accessible and recent overview:
Jost, J. T. (2017). A theory of system justification. American Psychological Association. Retrieved from
http://www.apa.org/science/about/psa/2017/06/system-justification.aspx
17. Hayek (1976); Nozick (1974).
18. This definition can no longer be found on the website of the National Association of Social Workers, but it was in
use until at least August 11, 2017. It can be accessed at: NASW. (2017, August 11). Social justice [via
web.archive.org]. Retrieved from
https://web.archive.org/web/20170811231830/https://www.socialworkers.org/pressroom/features/issue/peace.asp
[inactive]
19. Putnam (2015), pp. 31–32, notes that “if forced to choose, Americans at all income levels say by nearly three to one
that it is ‘more important for this country . . . to ensure everyone has a fair chance of improving their economic
standing [than] to reduce inequality in America.’” The survey questions he cites come from a survey conducted in
2011 by the Pew Economic Mobility Project.
20. See research on System Justification Theory, for example, Jost, Banaji, & Nosek (2004).
21. See discussion in chapter 3, and see Crenshaw’s TED talk: TED (Producer). (2016, October). Kimberlé Crenshaw at
TEDWomen 2016—The urgency of intersectionality [Video file]. Retrieved from
https://www.ted.com/talks/kimberle_crenshaw_the_urgency_of_intersectionality
22. Sometimes members of the minority group are motivated to deny these injustices as well; see research on System
Justification Theory, for example, Jost, Banaji, & Nosek (2004).
23. Guinier (1994).
24. Bolick, C. (1993, April 30). Clinton’s quota queens. The Wall Street Journal.
25. Lewis, N. A. (1993, June 4). Clinton abandons his nominee for rights post amid opposition. The New York Times.
Retrieved from http://www.nytimes.com/1993/06/04/us/clinton-abandons-his-nominee-for-rights-post-amidopposition.html
26. See U.S. Dept. of Education, Office for Civil Rights. (1979, December 11). A policy interpretation: Title IX and
intercollegiate athletics. Retrieved from https://www2.ed.gov/about/offices/list/ocr/docs/t9interp.html

27. A 1993 federal appellate decision, Cohen v. Brown Univ., would foreshadow what became the official position of the
Department of Education three years later. In Cohen, members of the women’s gymnastics and volleyball teams sued
Brown after their teams were cut, allegedly for financial reasons. The court held that Brown had violated Title IX,
because the percentage of varsity opportunities for women was lower than the percentage of female enrollment; that
there was substantial unsatisfied interest from women to play sports; and that, to comply with Title IX, Brown must
either fully accommodate the underrepresented sex or provide opportunities equal to the proportions in its
enrollment. See: 991 F.2d 888, 899 (1st Cir. 1993). In other words, if the interest of the underrepresented sex cannot
be fully accommodated, the overrepresented sex’s opportunities must be reduced until the proportions match.
28. Effectively all but five colleges in the country. For more on “Dear Colleague” letters, see: Admin. (2013, May 28).
Frequently asked questions regarding the federal “blueprint” for sexual harassment policies on campus. FIRE.
Retrieved from https://www.thefire.org/frequently-asked-questions-regarding-the-federal-blueprint-for-sexualharassment-policies-on-campus/#whatisdcl
29. Cantú, N. V. (1996, January 16). Clarification of intercollegiate athletics policy guidance: The three-part test [Dear
Colleague letters]. U.S. Department of Education. Retrieved from
https://www2.ed.gov/about/offices/list/ocr/docs/clarific.html
30. A second way to achieve compliance was to show that the school had “made progress” toward reaching the first
standard. A third way was to show that the interest of the underrepresented gender had been “fully and effectively
accommodated”—to show that, in practice, there weren’t enough women left wanting to play a sport to field a team.
These two options would seem to let schools off the hook for achieving equal outcomes, but, in practice, the only
ways to satisfy these standards invited close scrutiny by the Office for Civil Rights, and one of the top goals of any
compliance professional is to avoid an investigation by a government agency. The only way to definitively stave off
an investigation is to satisfy the first certification method, which is what nearly all schools have chosen to do.
31. For evidence that schools were being held to the highest standard, see Thomas, K. (2011, April 25). College teams,
relying on deception, undermine gender equity. The New York Times. Retrieved from
http://www.nytimes.com/2011/04/26/sports/26titleix.html
32. Thomas, K. (2011, May 1). Colleges cut men’s programs to satisfy Title IX. The New York Times. Retrieved from
http://www.nytimes.com/2011/05/02/sports/02gender.html
33. Deaner, Balish & Lombardo (2016). They also report a variety of evidence that prenatal exposure to testosterone for
girls correlates with later interest in sports, particularly more typically masculine sports.
34. Deaner et al. (2012).
35. Of course, a skeptic could argue that these differences were caused by differences in early-childhood socialization—
for example, the fact that in toy stores, the aisles of toys for girls and boys are so different, with much less sporting
equipment offered for girls. Perhaps, but efforts to change children’s gendered play behavior by treating them in a
gender-neutral or gender-reversed way have a poor history of success; see the sad case of David Reimer, for example,
in Burkeman, O., & Younge, G. (2004, May 12). Being Brenda. The Guardian. Retrieved from
https://www.theguardian.com/books/2004/may/12/scienceandnature.gender. Toy stores seem to be responding to
gendered preferences rather than causing them. And even if gendered sports preferences were caused entirely by
early socialization rather than by prenatal hormones, that would not justify requiring universities to insist on equal
outcomes, although it would have implications for elementary schools.
36. Thomas (2011, April 25); see n. 31.
37. Chang (2018).
38. Rivlin-Nadler, M. (2013, August 17). More buck for your bang: People who have more sex make the most money.
Gawker. Retrieved from http://gawker.com/more-bang-for-your-buck-people-who-have-more-sex-make1159315115
39. The actual study indicates that because “sexual activity is considered to be a barometer for health, quality of life,
well-being and happiness,” and “health, cognitive and non-cognitive skills and personality are important factors that
affect the wage level,” “it is unclear whether this correlation represents a causal relationship.” Drydakis, N. (2013).
The effect of sexual activity on wages. IZA Discussion Paper No. 7529. Retrieved from http://ftp.iza.org/dp7529.pdf
40. Sue et al. (2007), p. 274, define microinvalidations as “communications that exclude, negate, or nullify the
psychological thoughts, feelings, or experiential reality of a person of color.”
41. Gender differences in cognitive abilities are generally small or nonexistent. Gender differences in what people find
interesting and enjoyable are often large, consistent across cultures, and related to exposure to prenatal hormones.
For a summary of research on gender differences related to occupational choice, see Stevens, S., & Haidt, J. (2017).
The Google memo: What does the research say about gender differences? Heterodox Academy. Retrieved from
https://heterodoxacademy.org/the-google-memo-what-does-the-research-say-about-gender-differences
42. Tetlock, Kristel, Elson, Green, & Lerner (2000).

43. See Nordhaus, T., & Shellenberger, M. (2013, Winter). Wicked polarization: How prosperity, democracy, and
experts divided America. The Breakthrough Institute. Retrieved from
https://thebreakthrough.org/index.php/journal/past-issues/issue-3/wicked-polarization

Chapter 12: Wiser Kids
1. Stevens, S., & Haidt, J. (2018, March 19). The skeptics are wrong: Attitudes about free speech are changing on
campus. Heterodox Academy. Retrieved from https://heterodoxacademy.org/skeptics-are-wrong-about-campusspeech
2. Diamond, A. (2016, November 17). South Korea’s testing fixation. The Atlantic. Retrieved from
https://www.theatlantic.com/education/archive/2016/11/south-korean-seniors-have-been-preparing-for-todaysince-kindergarten/508031
3. Diebelius, G. (2018, February 27). Head teacher bans children from touching snow for “health and safety” reasons.
Metro News. Retrieved from http://metro.co.uk/2018/02/27/head-teacher-bans-children-touching-snow-healthsafety-reasons-7345840
4. We recognize that some children are targets of true bullying, and adults should neither ignore nor minimize behavior
that falls under the definition of bullying. “The widely accepted definition of bullying involves three criteria: 1)
Repetition: a child is the target of a pattern of aggressive behavior, or a child engages in a pattern of aggressive
behaviors against others. 2) A power imbalance exists between the children involved (the child with more power is
aggressive against the child with less power). 3) The aggressive child intends to do the other child or children harm.”
Paresky, P. (2016). We’re giving bullying a bad name. Psychology Today. Retrieved from
https://www.psychologytoday.com/blog/happiness-and-the-pursuit-leadership/201604/we-re-giving-bullying-badname
5. Play:groundNYC: built for children, by children. (n.d.). Retrieved from https://play-ground.nyc. For a brief history of
adventure playgrounds, visit https://play-ground.nyc/history. To see a video about this kind of playground, visit
https://www.youtube.com/watch?time_continue=1&v=74vOpkEin_A
6. Daniel Shuchman is also the chairman of the board of FIRE.
7. “Let Grow License.” Available at www.LetGrow.org/LetGrowLicense
8. Of course, the nature of an “abuse of authority” is that it exceeds what is legally allowed; accordingly, we cannot
guarantee that someone won’t detain your child. Forming an advocacy group of like-minded parents, and
approaching local law enforcement to educate them before there’s a dispute may help avoid conflict. Additionally,
this is not legal advice; it’s parenting advice. You should consult a licensed attorney in your state/province/country
for legal advice.
9. E. Christakis (personal communication, February 18, 2018).
10. Grant, A. (2017, November 4). Kids, would you please start fighting? The New York Times. Retrieved from
https://www.nytimes.com/2017/11/04/opinion/sunday/kids-would-you-please-start-fighting.html
11. The American Institute for Cognitive Therapy: https://www.cognitivetherapynyc.com
12. R. Leahy (personal communication, January 23, 2017).
13. Chansky (2004).
14. Beck Institute: https://beckinstitute.org. Other CBT resources include David Burns’s classic books Feeling Good: The
New Mood Therapy (1980) and The Feeling Good Handbook (1999).
15. Leahy, R. (n.d.). Anxiety files. Psychology Today. Retrieved from https://www.psychologytoday.com/blog/anxietyfiles
16. PTSD: National Center for PTSD. (n.d.). U.S. Department of Veterans Affairs. Retrieved from
https://www.ptsd.va.gov/public/materials/apps/cpt_mobileapp_public.asp
17. AnxietyCoach. (n.d.). Mayo Clinic. Retrieved from https://itunes.apple.com/us/app/anxietycoach/id565943257?
mt=8. For more information on CBT apps, see ADAA-reviewed mental health apps at https://adaa.org/findinghelp/mobile-apps
18. Mindful Staff (2017, January 11). Jon Kabat-Zinn: Defining mindfulness. Mindful. Retrieved from
https://www.mindful.org/jon-kabat-zinn-defining-mindfulness
19. Mindful Schools. (n.d.). Research on mindfulness. Retrieved from https://www.mindfulschools.org/aboutmindfulness/research. School-based mindfulness programs are also beneficial. See: Ohio Mental Health Network,
Project Aware Information Brief. (n.d.). School-based mindfulness interventions. Retrieved from
http://resources.oberlinkconsulting.com/uploads/infobriefs/Final_Mindfulness_Brief_No_3.pdf
20. Rempel, K. (2012).

21. Gelles, D. (n.d.). Mindfulness for children. The New York Times. Retrieved from
https://www.nytimes.com/guides/well/mindfulness-for-children
22. Emory-Tibet Partnership (n.d.). CBCT. Retrieved from https://tibet.emory.edu/cognitively-based-compassiontraining. And for a program at the University of Massachusetts Medical School that combines CBT with mindfulness
(Mindfulness-Based Cognitive Therapy), see: Center for Mindfulness. (n.d.). A mindful way through depression.
MBCT: Mindfulness-based cognitive therapy. Retrieved from https://www.umassmed.edu/cfm/mindfulness-basedprograms/mbct-courses
23. Solzhenitsyn (1975).
24. TED (Producer). (2011, April 26). On being wrong—Kathryn Schulz [Video file]. Retrieved from
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=QleRgTBMX88
25. We expect that we will have gotten some things wrong in this book, and we will maintain a page of corrections at
TheCoddling.com, where we will thank critics for pointing out our mistakes.
26. H. Cooper (personal communication, February 27, 2018). Also see: Cooper, Civey Robinson, & Patall (2006).
27. SBS Dateline (Producer). (2014, October 21). No rules school [Video File]. Retrieved from
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=r1Y0cuufVGI
28. This can work before school begins in the morning, too. For more information, see Let Grow. (2017, March 4). Let
Grow Play Club Final [Video file]. Retrieved from https://youtu.be/JX2ZG0b9I-U. The seven schools in the
Patchogue-Medford school district on Long Island, NY, have been piloting the Let Grow Play Club, which involves
almost no adult interference. Lori Koerner, principal at the Tremont Elementary School there, says, “This may have
been one of the most amazing experiences in my 28 years in education.” She adds that she saw “No bullying . . . It’s
almost like they don’t argue, because they know there’s nobody that’s gonna jump in and help them solve the
problem, so they have to just get along.” See: News Desk. (2018, January 25). Pat-Med debuts before school play
program. Patchogue Patch. Retrieved from https://patch.com/new-york/patchogue/pat-med-debuts-school-playprogram
29. One option is to have kids keep their phones zipped in a lockable cell phone pouch, which performing artists like
comedian Dave Chappelle are beginning to require at their shows. The pouches are distributed upon entry, phones
are locked inside, and while everyone still has his or her phone, they are unusable until tapped on an unlocking
device and retrieved from the pouch. See, for example, Yondr. (n.d.). How it works. Retrieved from
https://www.overyondr.com/howitworks
30. American Academy of Pediatrics Policy Statement. (2013). The crucial role of recess in school. Retrieved from
http://pediatrics.aappublications.org/content/pediatrics/early/2012/12/25/peds.2012-2993.full.pdf
31. Intellectual Virtues Academy: http://www.ivalongbeach.org
32. You can read book reviews, articles, and chapters of Professor Baehr’s books by going to his website:
https://jasonbaehr.wordpress.com/research. There you can also download Educating for Intellectual Virtues: An
Introductory Guide for College and University Instructors:
https://jasonbaehr.files.wordpress.com/2013/12/e4iv_baehr.pdf
33. International Debate Education Association: https://idebate.org/start-debate-club
34. Intelligence Squared debates are found at https://www.intelligencesquaredus.org/debates
35. Reeves, Haidt, & Cicirelli (2018). The book is titled All Minus One: John Stuart Mill’s Ideas on Free Speech
Illustrated. A free version of the e-book can be downloaded from HeterodoxAcademy.org/mill
36. Available at OpenMindPlatform.org
37. Common Sense Media’s research is available at https://www.commonsensemedia.org/research
38. Clark, Algoe, & Green (2018).
39. The nonprofit organizations Common Sense Media and the Center for Humane Technology are working together
to shift how technology affects the mind. You can find suggestions for how to reduce the negative effects of
smartphone use here: http://humanetech.com/take-control
40. In general, we oppose overmanaging and over-monitoring kids. But in this case, given the sophistication of the
social media companies in manipulating users and given the high levels of self-reported device addiction among
teens and the possible links to depression and suicide, we think that the use of external constraints and parental
monitoring is appropriate.
41. People report lower levels of empathy toward conversation partners in the presence of a mobile device. See: Misra,
Cheng, Genevie, & Yuan, M. (2014). See also: Nauert, R. (2017, May 25). Parents’ digital distractions linked to kids’
behavioral issues. Psych Central. Retrieved from https://psychcentral.com/news/2017/05/25/parents-digitaldistractions-linked-to-kids-behavioral-issues/121061.html
42. “Regularly sleeping fewer than the number of recommended hours is associated with attention, behavior, and
learning problems. Insufficient sleep also increases the risk of accidents, injuries, hypertension, obesity, diabetes, and
depression. Insufficient sleep in teenagers is associated with increased risk of self-harm, suicidal thoughts, and

suicide attempts.” Paruthi, S., et al. (2016). Recommended amount of sleep for pediatric populations: A consensus
statement of the American Academy of Sleep Medicine. Journal of Clinical Sleep Medicine, 12(6): 785–786. Retrieved
from https://aasm.org/resources/pdf/pediatricsleepdurationconsensus.pdf
43. Stanford Medicine News Center. (2015, October 8). Among teens, sleep deprivation an epidemic. Retrieved from
https://med.stanford.edu/news/all-news/2015/10/among-teens-sleep-deprivation-an-epidemic.html. See also:
Twenge (2017), chapter 4.
44. Twenge (2017). Also, in Reclaiming Conversation (2015) by MIT professor Sherry Turkle, Turkle reports that one
middle school dean told her, “Twelve-year-olds play on the playground like eight-year-olds,” (p. 3). Turkle notes that
children are delayed in their ability to read others’ emotions, their friendships are superficial, and there has been a
general decline in empathy among college students. See also: Turkle, S. (2015, September 26). Stop Googling. Let’s
talk. The New York Times. Retrieved from https://www.nytimes.com/2015/09/27/opinion/sunday/stop-googling-letstalk.html
45. Arnett (2004) wrote about “emerging adulthood” as a new phase of life in the late teens and early twenties, as
marriage and parenthood started to arrive later and later in the postwar decades.
46. Dunn, L. (2017, April 24). Why your brain would love it if you took a gap year. Forbes. Retrieved from
https://www.forbes.com/sites/noodleeducation/2017/04/24/why-your-brain-would-love-it-if-you-took-a-gapyear/#7d59496e41e2. See also: Southwick, N. (2014, December 2). What do college admissions really think of your
gap year? Retrieved from https://www.gooverseas.com/blog/what-do-college-admissions-really-think-of-your-gapyear
47. Aspen Ideas. (n.d.). A civic rite of passage: The case for national service. Retrieved from
https://www.aspenideas.org/session/civic-rite-passage-case-national-service
48. Service Year Alliance. (n.d.). What we do. Retrieved from http://about.serviceyear.org/what_we_do
49. McChrystal, S. (2014, November 14). How a national service year can repair America. The Washington Post.
Retrieved from https://www.washingtonpost.com/opinions/mcchrystal-americans-face-a-gap-of-shared-experienceand-common-purpose/2014/11/14/a51ad4fa-6b6a-11e4-a31c-77759fc1eacc_story.html
50. Learn more about gap years at https://www.GapYearAssociation.org
51. Varadarajan, T. (2018, February 16). The free-speech university. The Wall Street Journal. Retrieved from
https://www.wsj.com/articles/the-free-speech-university-1518824261

Chapter 13: Wiser Universities
1. To list just a few others, giving only the English translations: Brandeis University: “Truth, even unto its innermost
parts”; California Institute of Technology and Johns Hopkins University: “The truth shall make you free”; Colgate
University: “For God and Truth”; Howard University: “Truth and Service”; Northwestern University: “Whatsoever
things are true”; University of Michigan: “Art, Science, Truth.”
2. Pew Research Center. (2017, July 10). Sharp partisan divisions in views of national institutions: Republicans
increasingly say colleges have negative impact on U.S. U.S. Politics and Policy. Retrieved from http://www.peoplepress.org/2017/07/10/sharp-partisan-divisions-in-views-of-national-institutions
3. Marx wrote this line in 1845, in his Theses on Feuerbach, which was published as an appendix to Engels (1888/1976).
The quoted line is on p. 65. It is also engraved in English on his tomb, in London.
4. As we showed in chapter 5, The Evergreen State College changed its mission statement in 2011 to include the phrase
“Evergreen supports and benefits from a local and global commitment to social justice . . .” Brown University has
considered a similar move, as can be seen in this documentary: Montz, R. (2016). Silence U: Is the university killing
free speech and open debate? We the internet documentary. Retrieved from https://www.youtube.com/watch?
v=x5uaVFfX3AQ. After the president spoke of Brown’s “bedrock commitment to social justice and equity,” a group
of faculty members wrote, “We applaud and are hopeful about the call of the president and provost to unite around a
University agenda of social justice.” Brown Faculty Members (2015, November 13). Brown faculty members:
Supporting students of color in changing Brown. The Brown Daily Herald. Retrieved from
http://www.browndailyherald.com/2015/11/13/brown-faculty-members-supporting-students-of-color-in-changingbrown
5. Dreger (2015), p. 262.
6. Dreger (2015), p. 262.
7. A good deal of this language often comes from the American Association of University Professors (AAUP), which
was founded in 1915 to fight for academic freedom on campus. The AAUP’s statements from 1915 and 1940 are well
thought out and inspirational commitments to academic freedom and free inquiry, and later statements by the
AAUP on student speech and “extramural” speech (when a professor speaks off campus) also do an excellent job.

AAUP. (1940). Statement of principles on academic freedom and tenure. Retrieved from
https://www.aaup.org/report/1940-statement-principles-academic-freedom-and-tenure. See also: AAUP. (1915).
Declaration of principles on academic freedom and tenure. Retrieved from
https://www.aaup.org/NR/rdonlyres/A6520A9D-0A9A-47B3-B550-C006B5B224E7/0/1915Declara tion.pdf
8. FIRE. (n.d.). Adopting the Chicago Statement. Retrieved from https://www.thefire.org/student-network/takeaction/adopting-the-chicago-statement
9. You can find the policies of more than 450 colleges and universities at www.thefire.org. Universities can join the
growing number of colleges whose policies earn a “green light” rating from FIRE, which usually produces positive
publicity for a university. As of the final draft of this manuscript, forty colleges and universities have received a green
light rating. You can see which colleges are rated as red, yellow, or green at https://www.thefire.org/spotlight/usingthe-spotlight-database
10. You can find some information on each school’s openness to viewpoint diversity, including its response to recent
speech disruptions, by consulting the Heterodox Academy Guide to Colleges, available at
http://heterodoxacademy.org/guide-to-colleges
11. Arnett, J. J. (2004).
12. Professors and deans can use the Campus Expression Survey, a free tool created by Heterodox Academy, to measure
the speech climate on campus. Available at http://heterodoxacademy.org/campus-expression-survey
13. Simmons, R. J. (2014, May 18). Commencement address, Smith College. Retrieved from
https://www.smith.edu/about-smith/smith-history/commencement-speakers/2014. Simmons was chosen as the
substitute commencement speaker after Christine Lagarde, former managing director of the International Monetary
Fund, withdrew in response to student protests.
14. This distinction could have been made clearer in the much-discussed 2016 letter sent to University of Chicago
incoming freshmen by Dean of Students Jay Ellison. It read in part, “[W]e do not condone the creation of intellectual
‘safe spaces’ where individuals can retreat from ideas and perspectives at odds with their own.” You can read the
dean’s entire letter here: https://news.uchicago.edu/sites/default/files/attach
ments/Dear_Class_of_2020_Students.pdf
15. Haidt, J. (2017, March 2). Van Jones’ excellent metaphors about the dangers of ideological safety [Blog post].
Heterodox Academy. Retrieved from https://heterodoxacademy.org/2017/03/02/van-jones-excellent-metaphors
16. See, for example, Sidanius, Van Laar, Levin, & Sinclair (2004), which found a variety of negative effects (including
decreased feeling of common identity and increased feelings of ethnic victimization) from participation in “ethnic
enclaves” in college. Effects were similar for minority students, and for white students in fraternities.
17. Murray, P. (1945). An American Credo. CommonGround, 5 no.2 (1945): 24. Retrieved from
http://www.unz2.com/print/CommonGround-1945q4-00022 [inactive]
18. See BridgeUSA.org, and see a profile of the group in: Khadaroo, S. T. (2017, October 26). The anti-Washington:
College group offers a model for debating politely. The Christian Science Monitor. Retrieved from
https://www.csmonitor.com/EqualEd/2017/1026/The-anti-Washington-College-group-offers-a-model-for-debatingpolitely

Conclusion: Wiser Societies
1. Thomas Babington Macauley. From his book review on Southey’s Colloquies on Society, published in the Edinburgh
Review in January 1830. Retrieved from http://www.econlib.org/library/Essays/macS1.html
2. Facebook says it is now trying to foster more “meaningful interactions”; see Vogelstein, F. (2018, January 11).
Facebook Tweaks Newsfeed to Favor Content From Friends, Family. Wired. Retrieved from
https://www.wired.com/story/facebook-tweaks-newsfeed-to-favor-content-from-friends-family
3. Tsukayama, H. (2018, March 1). Twitter’s asking for help on how to be less toxic. The Washington Post. Retrieved
from https://www.washingtonpost.com/news/the-switch/wp/2018/03/01/twitters-asking-for-help-on-how-to-beless-toxic/?utm_term=.4b28ef8a631b. See especially this post by researchers working with Twitter: Measuring the
health of our public conversations. (2018, March 1). Cortico. Retrieved from
https://www.cortico.ai/blog/2018/2/29/public-sphere-health-indicators
4. Common Sense Media. (2018, February 5). Common Sense partners with the Center for Humane Technology;
Announces “Truth About Tech” Campaign in response to escalating concerns about digital addiction. Retrieved
from https://www.commonsensemedia.org/about-us/news/press-releases/common-sense-partners-with-the-centerfor-humane-technology-announces
5. De la Cruz, D. (2018, March 29). Utah passes “free-range” parenting law. The New York Times. Retrieved from
https://www.nytimes.com/2018/03/29/well/family/utah-passes-free-range-parenting-law.html

6. See: Illing, S. (2017, December 19). Reciprocal rage: Why Islamist extremists and the far right. Vox. Retrieved from
https://www.vox.com/world/2017/12/19/16764046/islam-terrorism-far-right-extremism-isis
7. See: Illing, S. (2017, October 13). 20 of America’s top political scientists gathered to discuss our democracy. They’re
scared. Retrieved from https://www.vox.com/2017/10/13/16431502/america-democracy-decline-liberalism
8. See: Chua (2018).
9. See: Rauch, J. (2017, November 9). Speaking as a . . . The New York Review of Books. Retrieved from
http://www.nybooks.com/articles/2017/11/09/mark-lilla-liberal-speaking
10. Rauch, J. (2018, February 16). Have our tribes become more important than our country? The Washington Post.
Retrieved from https://www.washingtonpost.com/outlook/have-our-tribes-become-more-important-than-ourcountry/2018/02/16/2f8ef9b2-083a-11e8-b48c-b07fea957bd5_story.html
11. @DalaiLama. (2018, May 21). [Tweet]. Retrieved from https://twitter.com/DalaiLama/status/998497410199437312
12. Klein, A. (2010, April 26). Not cool: The U of C tops HuffPo’s anti-party list. The Chicago Maroon. Retrieved from
https://www.chicagomaroon.com/2010/04/26/not-cool-the-u-of-c-tops-huffpo-s-anti-party-list
13. Franklin, B. (1750). Available at https://founders.archives.gov/documents/Franklin/01-04-02-0009

Appendix 1: How to Do CBT
1. For a review of self-help books for depression, see Anderson et al. (2005).

Appendix 2: The Chicago Statement on Principles of Free Expression
1. You can read the committee’s report here:
https://freeexpression.uchicago.edu/sites/freeexpression.uchicago.edu/files/FOECommitteeReport.pdf

REFERENCES

This section contains all books and academic articles referred to in the text or
in the endnotes. Citations for newspaper and magazine articles, reports, blog
posts, and online videos are given in the endnotes.
Abramowitz, S. I., Gomes, B., & Abramowitz, C. V. (1975). Publish or politic: Referee bias in manuscript review. Journal
of Applied Social Psychology, 5(3), 187–200.
Adams, J. S. (1963). Towards an understanding of inequity. The Journal of Abnormal and Social Psychology, 67(5), 422–
436.
Adams, J. S. (1965). Inequity in social exchange. In L. Berkowitz (Ed.), Advances in experimental social psychology (Vol.
2, pp. 267–299). New York, NY: Academic Press.
Adams, J. S., & Rosenbaum, W. B. (1962). The relationship of worker productivity to cognitive dissonance about wage
inequities. Journal of Applied Psychology, 69, 161–164.
Alexander, M. (2010). The new Jim Crow: Mass incarceration in the age of colorblindness. New York, NY: The New
Press.
Almas, I., Cappelen, A. W., Sorensen, E. O., & Tungodden, B. (2010). Fairness and the development of inequality
acceptance. Science, 328, 1176–1178.
Anderson, L., Lewis, G., Araya, R., Elgie, R., Harrison, G., Proudfoot, J., . . . Williams, C. (2005). Self-help books for
depression: How can practitioners and patients make the right choice? British Journal of General Practice, 55(514),
387–392.
Aristotle. (1941). Nichomachean ethics (W. D. Ross, Trans.). New York, NY: Random House.
Arnett, J. J. (2004). Emerging adulthood: The winding road from the late teens through the twenties. New York, NY:
Oxford University Press.
Aurelius, M. (2nd century CE/1964). Meditations (M. Staniforth, Trans.). London: Penguin Books.
Balko, R. (2013). Rise of the warrior cop: The militarization of America’s police forces. New York, NY: Public Affairs.
Bassok, D., Latham, S., & Rorem, A. (2016). Is kindergarten the new first grade? AERA Open, 1(4), 1–31.
Bellah, R. N. (1967). Civil religion in America. Journal of the American Academy of Arts and Sciences, 96(1), 1–21.
Bergesen, A. J. (1978). A Durkheimian theory of “witch-hunts” with the Chinese Cultural Revolution of 1966–1969 as
an example. Journal for the Scientific Study of Religion, 17(1), 19.
Berreby, D. (2005). Us and them: Understanding your tribal mind. New York, NY: Little, Brown.
Berry, J. M., & Sobieraj, S. (2014). The outrage industry: Public opinion media and the new incivility. New York, NY:
Oxford University Press.
Bishop, B. (2008). The big sort: Why the clustering of like-minded America is tearing us apart. Boston, MA: Houghton
Mifflin Harcourt.
Black, J. E., Jones, T. A., Nelson, C. A., & Greenough, W. T. (1998). Neuronal plasticity and the developing brain. In N.
E. Alessi, J. T. Coyle, S. I. Harrison, & S. Eth (Eds.), Handbook of child and adolescent psychiatry (Vol. 6, pp. 31–53).
New York, NY: John Wiley & Sons.
Bloom, P. (2014). Just babies: The origins of good and evil. New York, NY: Penguin Random House.
Boethius. (ca. 524 CE/2011). The consolation of philosophy (R. H. Green, Trans.). Mansfield Centre, CT: Martino.

Bonanno, G. A., Westphal, M., & Mancini, A. D. (2011). Resilience to loss and potential trauma. Annual Review of
Clinical Psychology, 7, 511–535.
Buddelmeyer, H., & Powdthavee, N. (2015). Can having internal locus of control insure against negative shocks?
Psychological evidence from panel data. Journal of Economic Behavior and Organization, 122, 88–109.
Burns, D. D. (1980). Feeling good: The new mood therapy. New York, NY: Avon Books.
Burns, D. D. (1999). The feeling good handbook. New York, NY: Plume.
Butler, A. C., Chapman, J. E., Forman, E. M., & Beck, A. T. (2006). The empirical status of cognitive-behavioral therapy:
A review of meta-analyses. Clinical Psychology Review, 26(1), 17–31.
Byrom, T. (Ed. and Trans.). (1993). Dhammapada: The sayings of the Buddha. Boston, MA: Shambhala.
Campbell, B., & Manning, J. (2014). Microaggression and moral cultures. Comparative sociology, 13, 692–726.
Campbell, B., & Manning, J. (2018). The rise of victimhood culture: Microaggressions, safe spaces, and the new culture
wars. [No city]: Palgrave Macmillan.
Carney, D. R., Jost, J. T., Gosling, S. D., & Potter, J. (2008). The secret lives of liberals and conservatives: Personality
profiles, interaction styles, and the things they leave behind. Political Psychology, 29(6), 807–840.
Chan, W. T. (Ed. and Trans.). (1963). A source book in Chinese philosophy. Princeton, NJ: Princeton University Press.
Chang, E. (2018). Brotopia: Breaking up the boys’ club of Silicon Valley. New York, NY: Portfolio/Penguin.
Chansky T. (2004). Freeing your child from anxiety: Powerful, practical solutions to overcome your child’s fears, worries,
and phobias. New York, NY: Random House.
Chen, P., Coccaro, E. F., & Jacobson, K. C. (2012). Hostile attributional bias, negative emotional responding, and
aggression in adults: Moderating effects of gender and impulsivity. Aggressive Behavior, 38(1), 47–63.
Chetty, R., Friedman, J. N., Saez, E., Turner, N., & Yagen, D. (2017). Mobility report cards: The role of colleges in
intergenerational mobility. Unpublished manuscript, retrieved from: http://www.equality-ofopportunity.org/papers/coll_mrc_paper.pdf
Christakis, E. (2016). The importance of being little: What young children really need from grownups. New York, NY:
Viking.
Christakis, N. A. (2008, December 10). This allergies hysteria is just nuts. BMJ, 337.
Chua, A. (2018). Political tribes: Group instinct and the fate of nations. New York, NY: Penguin Press.
Cikara, M., & Van Bavel, J. J. (2014). The neuroscience of intergroup relations: An integrative review. Perspectives on
Psychological Science, 9(245).
Clark, J. L., Algoe, S. B., & Green, M. C. (2018). Social network sites and well-being: The role of social connection.
Current Directions in Psychological Science, 27(1), 32–37.
Clements, R. (2004). An investigation of the status of outdoor play. Contemporary Issues in Early Childhood, 5(1), 68–
80.
Cohen, E. E., Ejsmond-Frey, R., Knight, N., & Dunbar, R. I. (2009). Rowers high: Behavioural synchrony is correlated
with elevated pain thresholds. Biology Letters, 6(1), 106–108.
Collier, L. (2016). Growth after trauma. APA Monitor, 47, 48.
Collins, P. H., & Bilge, S. (2016). Intersectionality. Cambridge, UK: Polity Press.
Cooper, H., Civey Robinson, J., & Patall, E. (2006). Does homework improve academic achievement? A synthesis of
research, 1987–2003. Review of Educational Research, Spring 2006, 76(1), 1–62.
Cooper, H., Lindsay, J. J., Nye, B., & Greathouse, S. (1998). Relationships among attitudes about homework, amount of
homework assigned and completed, and student achievement. Journal of Educational Psychology, 90(1), 70–83.
Cooper, H., Steenbergen-Hu, S., & Dent, A. (2012). Homework. In K. R. Harris, S. Graham, T. Urdan, A. G. Bus, S.
Major, & H. L. Swanson (Eds.), APA educational psychology handbook, Vol. 3. Application to learning and teaching
(pp. 475–495). Washington, DC: American Psychological Association.
Costello, E. J. (1982). Locus of control and depression in students and psychiatric outpatients. Journal of Clinical
Psychology 38(2), 340–343.
Crawford, J. T., & Jussim, L. J. (2018). The politics of social psychology. New York, NY: Routledge.
Crenshaw, K. M. (1989). Demarginalizing the intersection of race and sex: A black feminist critique of
antidiscrimination doctrine, feminist theory and antiracist politics. University of Chicago Legal Forum, 1989(1).

Crick, N. R., & Grotpeter, J. K. (1995). Relational aggression, gender, and social-psychological adjustment. Child
Development, 66(3), 710–722.
Curtiss, S. (1977). Genie: A psycholinguistic study of a modern-day “wild child.” Boston, MA: Academic Press.
Damon, W. (1979). The social world of the child. San Francisco, CA: Jossey-Bass.
de Tocqueville, A. (1839/2012). Democracy in America (E. Nolla, Ed.; J. T. Schleifer, Trans.) Indianapolis: Liberty Fund.
Deaner, R. O., Balish, S. M., & Lombardo, M. P. (2016). Sex differences in sports interest and motivation: An
evolutionary perspective. Evolutionary Behavioral Sciences, 10(2), 73–97.
Deaner, R. O., Geary, D. C., Puts, D. A., Ham, S. A., Kruger, J., Fles, E., . . . Grandis, T. (2012). A sex difference in the
predisposition for physical competition: Males play sports much more than females even in the contemporary U.S.
PLoS ONE, 7, e49168.
DeLoache, J. S., Chiong, C., Sherman, K., Islam, N., Vanderborght, M., Troseth, G. L., Strouse, G. A., & O’Doherty, K.
(2010). Do babies learn from baby media? Psychological Science, 21(11), 1570–1574.
Deresiewicz, W. (2015). Excellent sheep: The miseducation of the American elite and the way to a meaningful life. New
York, NY: Free Press.
Dreger, A. (2015). Galileo’s middle finger: Heretics, activists, and one scholar’s search for justice. New York, NY: Penguin
Books.
Duarte, J. L., Crawford, J. T., Stern, C., Haidt, J., Jussim, L., & Tetlock, P. E. (2015). Political diversity will improve social
psychological science. Behavioral and Brain Sciences, 38, 1–13.
Durkheim, E. (1915/1965). The elementary forms of the religious life (J. W. Swain, Trans.). New York, NY: Free Press.
Du Toit, G. D., Katz, Y., Sasieni, P., Mesher, D., Maleki, S. J., Fisher, H. R., . . . Lack, G. (2008). Early consumption of
peanuts in infancy is associated with a low prevalence of peanut allergy. Journal of Allergy and Clinical Immunology,
122(5), 984–991.
Du Toit, G. D., Roberts, G., Sayre, P. H., Bahnson, H. T., Radulovic, S., Santos, A. F., . . . Lack, G. (2015). Randomized
trial of peanut consumption in infants at risk for peanut allergy. New England Journal of Medicine, 372(9), 803–813.
Ebner, J. (2017). The rage: The vicious circle of Islamist and far right extremism. New York, NY: Tauris.
Eggertson, L. (2010, March 9). Lancet retracts 12-year-old article linking autism to MMR vaccines. CMAJ: Canadian
Medical Association Journal, 182(4), E199–E200. http://doi.org/10.1503/cmaj.109-3179
Ehrenreich, B. (2006). Dancing in the streets: A history of collective joy. New York, NY: Metropolitan Books.
Einon, D., Morgan, M. J., & Kibbler, C. C. (1978). Brief periods of socialization and later behavior in the rat.
Developmental Psychobiology, 11, 213–225.
Engels, F. (1888/1976). Ludwig Feuerbach and the end of classical German philosophy. Peking: Foreign Languages Press.
Epictetus & Lebell, S. (1st–2nd century/1995). Art of living: The classical manual on virtue, happiness, and effectiveness.
New York, NY: HarperOne.
Fiske, A. P. (1992). The four elementary forms of sociality: Framework for a unified theory of social relations.
Psychological Review, 99(4), 689–723.
Foa, E. B., & Kozak, M. J. (1986). Emotional processing of fear: Exposure to corrective information. Psychological
Bulletin, 99, 20–35.
Frankl, E. (1959/2006). Man’s search for meaning. Boston, MA: Beacon Press.
Ganti, L., Bodhit, A. N., Daneshvar, Y., Patel, P. S., Pulvino, C., Hatchitt, K., . . . Tyndall, J. A. (2013). Impact of helmet
use in traumatic brain injuries associated with recreational vehicles. Advances in Preventive Medicine, 2013, 1–6.
Ghitza, Y., & Gelman, A. (2014, July 7). The Great Society, Reagan’s revolution, and generations of presidential voting.
Working paper. Retrieved from
https://static01.nyt.com/newsgraphics/2014/07/06/generations2/assets/cohort_voting_20140707.pdf
Ginsberg, B. (2011). The fall of the faculty: The rise of the all-administrative university and why it matters. New York,
NY: Oxford University Press.
Gosling, S. (2008). Snoop: What your stuff says about you. New York, NY: Basic Books.
Gotlib, I. H., & Joormann, J. (2010). Cognition and depression: Current status and future directions. Annual Review of
Clinical Psychology, 6, 285–312.
Gratz, K. L., Conrad, S. D., & Roemer, L. (2002). Risk factors for deliberate self-harm among college students. American
Journal of Orthopsychiatry 1, 128–140.

Gray, H. H. (2012). Searching for utopia: Universities and their histories. Berkeley: University of California Press.
Gray, P. (2011). The decline of play and the rise of psychopathology in children and adolescents. American Journal of
Play, 3(4), 443–463.
Gray, P. (In press). Evolutionary functions of play: Practice, resilience, innovation, and cooperation. In P. Smith & J.
Roopnarine (Eds.), The Cambridge handbook of play: Developmental and disciplinary perspectives. New York, NY:
Cambridge University Press.
Greenwald, A. G., Banaji, M. R., & Nosek, B. A. (2015). Statistically small effects of the Implicit Association Test can
have societally large effects. Journal of Personality and Social Psychology, 108(4), 553–561.
Guinier, L. (1994). The tyranny of the majority: Fundamental fairness in representative democracy. New York, NY: Free
Press.
Hacking, I. (1991). The making and molding of child abuse. Critical Inquiry, 17, 253–288.
Haidt, J. (2006). The happiness hypothesis: Finding modern truth in ancient wisdom. New York, NY: Basic Books.
Haidt, J. (2012). The righteous mind: Why good people are divided by politics and religion. New York, NY: Pantheon
Books.
Haji, N. (2011). The sweetness of tears. New York, NY: William Morrow.
Hare, C., & Poole, K. T. (2014). The polarization of contemporary American politics. Polity, 46, 411–429.
Haslam, N. (2016). Concept creep: Psychology’s expanding concepts of harm and pathology. Psychological Inquiry,
27(1), 1–17.
Hayek, F. A. (1976). The mirage of social justice, Vol. 2 of Law, legislation, and liberty. Chicago, IL: University of
Chicago Press.
Heider, F. (1958). The psychology of interpersonal relationships. New York, NY: John Wiley & Sons.
Hirsh-Pasek, K. Golinkoff, R. M., Berk, L. E., & Singer. D. G. (2009). A mandate for playful learning in preschool:
Presenting the evidence. New York, NY: Oxford University Press.
Hoffer, E. (1951/2010). The true believer: Thoughts on the nature of mass movements. New York, NY: Harper Perennial
Modern Classics.
Hofferth, S. L., & Sandberg, J. F. (2001). Changes in American children’s time, 1981–1997. In S. L. Hofferth & T. J.
Owens (Eds.), Children at the millennium: Where have we come from? Where are we going? (pp. 193–229).
Amsterdam: Elsevier.
Hogg, M. A. (2016). Social identity theory. Encyclopedia of Identity, 3–17.
Hol, T., Berg, C. V., Ree, J. V., & Spruijt, B. (1999). Isolation during the play period in infancy decreases adult social
interactions in rats. Behavioural Brain Research, 100(1–2), 91–97.
Holland, J. H. (1992). Complex adaptive systems. Daedalus, 121, 17–30.
Hollon, S. D., & DeRubeis, R. J. (In press). Outcome studies in cognitive therapy. In R. L. Leahy (Ed.), Contemporary
cognitive therapy: Theory, research, and practice (2nd ed.). New York, NY: Guilford Press.
Horwitz, S. (2015). Cooperation over coercion: The importance of unsupervised childhood play for democracy and
liberalism. Cosmos+Taxis, 3–16.
Hunter, D., & Tice, P. (2016, September). 2015 national survey on drug use and health: Methodological summary and
definitions: B.4.8 Major depressive episode (depression). Rockville, MD: Substance Abuse and Mental Health
Services Administration.
Huseman, R. C., Hatfield, J. D., & Miles, E. W. (1987). A new perspective on equity theory: The equity sensitivity
construct. Academy of Management Review, 12, 222–234.
Ip, G. (2015). Foolproof: Why safety can be dangerous and how danger makes us safe. New York, NY: Little, Brown.
Iyengar, S., & Krupenkin, M. (2018). The strengthening of partisan affect. Advances in Political Psychology, 39, Suppl. 1,
2018, 201–218.
Johnson, J. S., & Newport, E. L. (1989). Critical period effects in second language learning: The influence of
maturational state on the acquisition of English as a second language. Cognitive Psychology, 21(1), 60–99.
Jost, J. T., Banaji, M. R., & Nosek, B. A. (2004). A decade of system justification theory: Accumulated evidence of
conscious and unconscious bolstering of the status quo. Political Psychology, 25(6), 881–919.
Kahneman, D. (2011). Thinking fast and slow. New York, NY: Farrar, Straus and Giroux.

Kanngiesser, P., & Warneken, F. (2012). Young children consider merit when sharing resources with others. PLOS ONE
7, e43979. https://doi.org/10.1371/journal.pone.0043979
Kerr, C. (1963). The uses of the university. Cambridge, MA: Harvard University Press.
King, M. L. (1963/1981). Strength to love. Philadelphia, PA: Fortress Press.
LaFreniere, P. (2011). Evolutionary functions of social play: Life histories, sex differences, and emotion regulation.
American Journal of Play, 3(4), 464–488.
Langbert, M., Quain, A. J., & Klein, D. B. (2016). Faculty voter registration in economics, history, journalism, law, and
psychology. Econ Journal Watch, 13(3), 422–451.
Lareau, A. (2011). Unequal childhoods: Class, race, and family life. 2nd edition. Berkeley: University of California Press.
Leahy, R. L., Holland, S. F. J., & McGuinn, L. K. (2011). Treatment plans and interventions for depression and anxiety
disorders. 2nd edition. New York, NY: Guilford Press.
Lewis, H. R. (2007). Excellence without a soul: Does liberal education have a future? New York, NY: PublicAffairs.
Lilienfeld, S. O. (2017). Microaggressions. Perspectives on Psychological Science, 12(1), 138–169.
Lilla, M. (2017). The once and future liberal: After identity politics. New York, NY: Harper.
Lind, E. A., & Tyler, T. R. (1988). The social psychology of procedural justice. New York, NY: Plenum Press.
Lukianoff, G. (2014). Unlearning liberty: Campus censorship and the end of American debate. New York, NY: Encounter
Books.
Luthar, S., & Latendresse, S. (2005). Children of the affluent: Challenges to well-being. Current Directions in
Psychological Science, 14, 49–53.
Maccoby, E. E. (1998). The two sexes: Growing up apart, coming together. Cambridge, MA: Harvard University Press.
MacFarquhar, R., & Schoenhals, M. (2006). Mao’s last revolution. Cambridge, MA: Harvard University Press.
Mandela, N. (2003). In his own words. New York, NY: Little, Brown.
Mann, T. E., & Ornstein, N. J. (2012). It’s even worse than it looks: How the American constitutional system collided with
the new politics of extremism. New York, NY: Basic Books.
Marano, H. E. (2008). A nation of wimps. New York, NY: Crown Archetype.
Mascaro, J. (Ed. and Trans.). (1995). Buddha’s teachings. New York, NY: Penguin Classics.
McClintock, C. G., Spaulding, C. B., & Turner, H. A. (1965). Political orientations of academically affiliated
psychologists. American Psychologist, 20(3), 211–221.
McCrae, R. R. (1996). Social consequences of experiential openness. Psychological Bulletin, 120(3), 323–337.
Mercado, M. C., Holland, K., Leemis, R. W., Stone, D. M., & Wang, J. (2017). Trends in emergency department visits
for nonfatal self-inflicted injuries among youth aged 10 to 24 years in the United States, 2001–2015. JAMA, 318(19),
1931.
Mill, J. S. (1859/2003). On liberty. New Haven, CT: Yale University Press.
Milton, J., & Blake, W. (2017). Paradise lost. London: Sirius Publishing.
Misra, S., Cheng, L., Genevie, J., & Yuan, M. (2014). The iPhone effect: The quality of in-person social interactions in
the presence of mobile devices. Environment and Behavior, 48(2), 275–298.
Morgan, K. P. (1996). Describing the emperor’s new clothes: Three myths of educational (in-)equity. In A. Diller et al.,
The gender question in education: Theory, pedagogy, and politics (pp. 105–122). Boulder, CO: Westview Press.
Mose, T. R. (2016). The playdate: Parents, children, and the new expectations of play. New York, NY: New York
University Press.
Murray, P. (1945). An American credo. Common Ground, 1945(4), 22–24.
Mustoe, A. C., Taylor, J. H., Birnie, A. K., Huffman, M. C., & French, J. A. (2014). Gestational cortisol and social play
shapes development of marmosets’ HPA functioning and behavioral responses to stressors. Developmental
Psychobiology, 56, 1229–1243.
National Center for Education Statistics. (1993, January). 120 years of American education: A statistical portrait.
Retrieved from https://nces.ed.gov/pubs93/93442.pdf
Nietzsche, F. W. (1889/1997). Twilight of the idols (R. Polt, Trans.). Indianapolis, IN: Hackett Publishing.
Nolen-Hoeksema, S., & Girgus, J. S. (1994, May). The emergence of gender differences in depression during
adolescence. Psychological Bulletin, 115(3), 424–443.

Norton, M. B. (2007). In the devil’s snare: The Salem witchcraft crisis of 1693. New York, NY: Random House.
Novotney, A. (2014). Students under pressure: College and university counseling centers are examining how best to
serve the growing number of students seeking their services. Monitor on Psychology, 45, 36.
Nozick, R. (1974). Anarchy, state, and utopia. New York, NY: Basic Books.
Okada, H., Kuhn, C., Feillet, H., & Bach, J. (2010). The “hygiene hypothesis” for autoimmune and allergic diseases: An
update. Clinical & Experimental Immunology, 160, 1–9.
Ostrom, E. (1990). Governing the commons: The evolution of institutions for collective action. New York, NY: Cambridge
University Press.
Ostrom, V. (1997). The meaning of democracy and the vulnerability of democracies. Ann Arbor: University of Michigan
Press.
Pariser, E. (2011). The filter bubble: How the new personalized web is changing what we read and how we think. New
York, NY: Penguin Press.
Pavlac, B. A. (2009). Witch hunts in the Western world: Persecution and punishment from the Inquisition through the
Salem trials. Westport, CT: Greenwood Press.
Peterson, C., Maier, S. F., & Seligman, M. E. P. (1993). Learned helplessness: A theory for the age of personal control. New
York, NY: Oxford University Press.
Piaget, J. (1932/1965). The moral judgement of the child (M. Gabain, Trans.). New York, NY: Macmillan.
Pierce, C. M. (1970). Offensive mechanisms. In F. B. Barbour (Ed.), The black seventies (pp. 265–282). Boston, MA:
Porter Sargent.
Pinker, S. (2016). The blank slate: The modern denial of human nature. New York, NY: Penguin Books.
Pinker, S. (2017). Enlightenment now: The case for reason, science, humanism, and progress. New York, NY: Viking.
Prociuk, T. J., Breen, L. J., & Lussier, R. J. (1976). Hopelessness, internal-external locus of control, and depression.
Journal of Clinical Psychology 32(2), 299–300.
Putnam, R. D. (2000). Bowling alone: The collapse and revival of American community. New York, NY: Simon &
Schuster.
Putnam, R. D. (2015). Our kids: The American dream in crisis. New York, NY: Simon & Schuster.
Rawls, J. (1971). A theory of justice. Cambridge, MA: Harvard University Press.
Reeves, R. V., Haidt, J., & Cicirelli, D. (2018). All minus one: John Stuart Mill’s ideas on free speech illustrated. New York,
NY: Heterodox Academy.
Rempel K. (2012). Mindfulness for children and youth: A review of the literature with an argument for school-based
implementation. Canadian Journal of Counselling and Psychotherapy, 46(3), 201–220.
Ridley, M. (2010). The rational optimist: How prosperity evolves. New York, NY: Harper.
Ross, M., & Sicoly, F. (1979). Egocentric biases in availability and attribution. Journal of Personality & Social Psychology,
37, 322–336.
Rubinstein, R., Jussim, L., Stevens, S. (2018). Reliance on individuating information and stereotypes in implicit and
explicit person perception. Journal of Experimental Social Psychology, 75, 54–70.
Sacks, J. (2015). Not in God’s name. New York, NY: Random House.
Salk, R., Hyde, J., Abramson, L. (2017). Gender differences in depression in representative national samples: Metaanalyses of diagnoses and symptoms. Psychological Bulletin, 143(8), r783–822.
Sandseter, E., & Kennair, L. (2011). Children’s risky play from an evolutionary perspective: The anti-phobic effects of
thrilling experiences. Evolutionary Psychology, 9, 257–284.
Seligman, M. (1990). Learned optimism: How to change your mind and your life. New York, NY: Vintage Books.
Shakespeare, W. (ca. 1600/2008). Hamlet (G. R. Hibbard, Ed.). Oxford, UK: Oxford University Press.
Shin, L. M., & Liberzon, I. (2010). The neurocircuitry of fear, stress, and anxiety disorders. Neuropsychopharmacology,
35(1), 169–191.
Shweder, R. A. (1996). True ethnography: The lore, the law, and the lure. In R. Jessor, A. Colby, & R. A. Shweder (Eds.),
Ethnography and human development (pp. 15–52). Chicago, IL: University of Chicago Press.
Sidanius, J., Van Laar, C., Levin, S., & Sinclair, S. (2004). Ethnic enclaves and the dynamics of social identity on the
college campus: The good, the bad, and the ugly. Journal of Personality and Social Psychology, 87, 96–110.
Silverglate, H. A. (2009). Three felonies a day: How the Feds target the innocent. New York, NY: Encounter Books.

Singer, D. G., Singer, J. L., D’Agostino, H., & DeLong, R. (2009). Children’s pastimes and play in sixteen nations: Is freeplay declining? American Journal of Play, 1(3), 283–312.
Sloane, S., Baillargeon, R., & Premack, D. (2012). Do infants have a sense of fairness? Psychological Science, 23(2), 196–
204.
Solomon, A. (2014). The noonday demon: An atlas of depression. New York, NY: Scribner Classics.
Solzhenitsyn, A. I. (1975). The Gulag Archipelago, 1918–1956: An experiment in literary investigation (Vol. 2) (T. P.
Whitney, Trans.) New York, NY: Harper Perennial.
Starmans, C., Sheskin, M., & Bloom, P. (2017). Why people prefer unequal societies. Nature Human Behaviour, 1(4),
0082.
Sue, D. W., Capodilupo, C. M., Torino, G. C., Bucceri, J. M., Holder, A. M., Nadal, K. L., & Esquilin, M. (2007). Racial
microaggressions in everyday life: Implications for clinical practice. American Psychologist, 62(4), 271–286.
Tajfel, H. (1970). Experiments in intergroup discrimination. Scientific American, 223(5), 96–102.
Taleb, N. N. (2007). The black swan: The impact of the highly improbable. New York, NY: Random House.
Taleb, N. N. (2012). Antifragile: Things that gain from disorder. New York, NY: Random House.
Tetlock, P. E., Kristel, O. V., Elson, B., Green, M., & Lerner, J. (2000). The psychology of the unthinkable: Taboo tradeoffs, forbidden base rates, and heretical counterfactuals. Journal of Personality and Social Psychology, 78, 853–870.
Thibaut, J. W., & Walker, L. (1975). Procedural justice: A psychological analysis. Hillsdale, NJ: L. Erlbaum Associates.
Thucydides (1972). History of the Peloponnesian War. (R. Warner, Trans.). London: Penguin Classics.
Tuvel, R. (2017). In defense of transracialism. Hypatia, 32(2), 263–278.
Twenge, J. M. (2017). iGen: Why today’s super-connected kids are growing up less rebellious, more tolerant, less happy—
and completely unprepared for adulthood—and what that means for the rest of us. New York, NY: Atria Books.
Twenge, J. M., Joiner, T. E., Rogers, M. L., & Martin, G. N. (2018). Increases in depressive symptoms, suicide-related
outcomes, and suicide rates among U.S. adolescents after 2010 and links to increased new media screen time.
Clinical Psychological Science, 6(1), 3–17.
Tyler, T. R., & Blader, S. L. (2014). Cooperation in groups: Procedural justice, social identity, and behavioral engagement.
New York, NY: Psychology Press.
Tyler, T. R., & Huo, Y. J. (2002). Trust in the law: Encouraging public cooperation with the police and courts. New York,
NY: Russell Sage Foundation.
van der Vossen, B. (2014). In defense of the ivory tower: Why philosophers should stay out of politics. Philosophical
Psychology, 28(7), 1045–1063. doi: 10.1080/09515089.2014.972353
Vaughn, D., Savjani, R. R., Cohen, M., & Eagleman, D. M. (under review). Empathy is modulated by religious affiliation
of the other.
Walster, E. H., Walster, G. W., & Berscheid, E. (1978). Equity: Theory and research. Boston, MA: Allyn & Bacon.
Ward, D. T. (1994). Happy ending and day of absence: Two plays. New York, NY: Dramatists Play Service.
Wiltermuth, S. S., & Heath, C. (2009). Synchrony and cooperation. Psychological Science, 20(1), 1–5.
Wolff, R. P., Moore, B., & Marcuse, H. (1965/1969). A critique of pure tolerance. Boston, MA: Beacon Press.
Woodard, C. (2011). American nations: A history of the eleven rival regional cultures of North America. New York, NY:
Viking.
Zhiguo, W., & Fang, Y. (2014). Comorbidity of depressive and anxiety disorders: Challenges in diagnosis and
assessment. Shanghai Archives of Psychiatry, 26(4), 227–231.
Zimbardo, P. G. (2007). The Lucifer effect: Understanding how good people turn evil. New York, NY: Random House.

ABCDEFGHIJKLMNOPQRSTUVWXYZ

INDEX

The page numbers in this index refer to the printed version of this book. The link provided will take you
to the beginning of that print page. You may need to scroll forward from that location to find the
corresponding reference on your e-reader.
abuse, 25, 26, 175
Adam, 166
Adam Walsh Child Resource Center, 166
Adler, Eric, 198–99
adulthood, 148, 250, 257
Adverse Childhood Experiences (ACE), 175, 176
aggression, 40, 71
in girls versus boys, 155, 161
microaggressions, 40–46, 51, 71, 77, 145, 205, 210, 260
Albright, Madeleine, 48
Alexander, Larry, 107–8
Alexander, Michelle, 74
Algoe, Sara, 159
allergies, 21–22
peanut, 19–21, 23–24, 30, 164, 236, 237
American Academy of Pediatrics, 247
American Civil Liberties Union (ACLU), 92, 216
American Enterprise Institute, 87
American National Election Study, 129
America’s Most Wanted, 166
Antifa, 81, 83, 91
Antifragile (Taleb), 22–23, 164, 170
antifragility, 22–24, 28, 31, 146, 164, 176, 178, 193, 206, 237, 246
anxiety, 5, 12, 24, 30, 33–34, 125, 126, 157, 164
cognitive behavioral therapy and, 7–8, 29
cognitive distortions and, 7–8, 10, 158–59, 161
depression and, 158
in girls versus boys, 149–51, 160
overprotection and, 183
play deprivation and, 183
rates of, 149–51, 157–58, 160, 183, 185
safetyism and, 158

Aristotle, 253
art of association, 191–92, 194, 211
Ashworth, Kevin, 163
Atlantic, 42, 72, 95, 190
“The Coddling of the American Mind” (Lukianoff and Haidt), 10–12, 31, 37, 121, 145, 156, 205
Atomwaffen Division, 133
Axelrod, David, 96
Baby Boom generation, 110, 111, 167, 174
Baehr, Jason, 247–48
Balko, Radley, 74
Barrett, Lisa Feldman, 95
Beck, Aaron, 36–37
Beck, Glenn, 132
Bell Curve, The (Herrnstein and Murray), 87
Berenstain, Nora, 105
Bergen Community College, 201
Bergesen, Albert, 100–103, 105–7, 119
Berkeley, University of California at, 12, 81–87, 90, 94, 120
bias reporting systems, 204–6, 212
Big Sort, The: Why the Clustering of Like-Minded America Is Tearing Us Apart (Bishop), 130
Bilge, Sirma, 68
Bill of Rights, 222–23
Bishop, Bill, 130
Black Lives Matter (BLM), 75, 88, 133, 134
Black Swan, The (Taleb), 22
blaming, 38, 39, 278
Bloom, Paul, 218
Boethius, 34, 35
Bond, Sarah, 136–37
brain, 153, 181–84, 193, 194
Breitbart News, 81
Bridges, George, 115–17, 119, 198
Brookings Institution, 86
Brown, Stacy, 116, 118–19
Brown University, 26–28, 70, 259
Bruni, Frank, 190
Buddha, ix, 34, 35, 60, 95, 241
bullying, 25, 26, 246
call-out culture, 5, 10, 71–73, 77, 86, 158
Cambridge Analytica, 265
Campbell, Bradley, 209, 210
Carlson, Tucker, 118, 133, 134
Carter, Jimmy, 224
catastrophizing, 38, 50, 84–85, 89, 145, 190, 201, 212, 277
Center for Collegiate Mental Health, 156

Centers for Disease Control, 190
charitable interpretations, see principle of charity
Charleston church shooting, 139
Charlottesville rally, 90–92, 94, 97, 139
Chicago Statement on Principles of Free Expression, 255–56, 268, 279–81
Chinese Cultural Revolution, 100–102
children
academic and career pressures on, 174, 235, 236
adversity and, 175–76
books for, 172
cognitive behavioral techniques for, 241–42
community of, 239–40
conflict resolution and disagreement skills in, 191–92, 194, 211, 212, 240, 248, 258–60
democracy and, 191–94
and fear of strangers and abduction, 165–67, 178, 186, 194, 235, 238
mindfulness and, 242
phones and, see phones
play and, see play
school and, see school
sleep and, 250
structured lives of, 188–89, 246
suggestions for, 235–51
summer camps for, 240
wisdom and, 235–51
year of service or work after high school, 250–51, 257
see also parenting
Christakis, Erika, 56–57, 71, 102–3, 127, 165, 187, 188, 210–11, 240
Christakis, Nicholas, 56–57, 127
Chronicle of Higher Education, 208
Chua, Amy, 267
Ciccariello-Maher, George, 135
civil rights laws, 206, 207
civil rights movement, 60–61, 65, 67, 84, 216, 221, 222, 230
Claremont McKenna College (CMC), 53–55, 88–90, 102–3, 120, 134, 175
Clark, Jenna, 159
Clinton, Bill, 222, 224
coddling, use of word, 13–14
cognitive behavioral therapy (CBT), 3, 7–9, 14, 29, 51, 95, 144–45, 196, 259
Boethius and, 34–36
children and, 241–42
effectiveness of, 37
how to do, 275–78
as microaggression, 42
cognitive distortions, 7–10, 14, 36–40, 50, 84–85, 89, 144–45, 196–97, 212, 259
anxiety and, 7–8, 10, 158–59, 161
categories of, 37–38, 277–78
depression and, 7–8, 10, 36–37, 150, 158–59, 161
parenting and, 177–78

safetyism and, 177–78
see also emotional reasoning
college campuses, see universities
Collins, Patricia Hill, 68
Collins, Richard, III, 139
Columbia University, 6, 7, 40, 255
Coming Apart (Murray), 87
Common Core, 188
common-enemy identity politics, 62–67, 71–73, 76, 77, 89–90, 119–20, 244
common-humanity identity politics, 60–62, 74–76, 221, 244
Common Sense Media, 249
concept creep, 24–27, 31–32, 105, 150, 205
harassment and, 206–9
safety and, 24–25, 27, 259
trauma and, 25–26
violence and, 85–86
confirmation bias, 109, 131, 258, 259
conflict resolution and disagreement skills, 191–92, 194, 211, 212, 240, 248, 258–60
Congress, 131
Consolation of Philosophy, The (Boethius), 34, 35
Constitution, U.S., 222–23
Cooper, Harris, 185, 245
correlation:
causation and, 227–29, 231–32
spurious, 152, 228
Coulter, Ann, 83
Crenshaw, Kimberlé Williams, 67–68, 71, 221
Crick, Nicki, 155
crime, 167, 186, 238, 266
criminal justice system, 74
critical thinking, 39, 113, 259
CYA (Cover Your Ass), 203, 211, 212
Daily Californian, 84
Dalai Lama, 267
Day of Absence, 114–15
Deaner, Robert, 225
debate clubs, 248
democracy, 66, 191–94, 222–23, 254
Democracy in America (Tocqueville), 195
Democrats, 129–31, 213, 216
see also politics
Department of Education, 207
Department of Justice, 207
depression, 5, 12, 24, 30, 125, 126, 143, 157, 164, 250
activities correlated with, 152–53
anxiety and, 158

cognitive behavioral therapy and, 7–8
cognitive distortions and, 7–8, 10, 36–37, 150, 158–59, 161
first-person account of, 143–44
in girls versus boys, 149–51, 160
play deprivation and, 183
rates of, 149–50, 157–58, 160, 183, 185
safetyism and, 158
see also suicide
Depression, Great, 130
Deresiewicz, William, 189
Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of Mental Disorders (DSM), 25
dichotomous thinking, 38, 39, 50, 85, 89, 145, 177, 277
dignity culture, 209–10
disconfirm, inability to, 278
disconfirmation, institutionalized, 109, 110, 229
discounting positives, 38, 177, 277
distributive justice, 217–21, 227, 230, 231
Dolezal, Rachel, 104
Dreger, Alice, 254–55
Drexel University, 135, 202
Duckworth, Angela, 190
Duke, Annie, 248–49
Durden, Lisa, 134–35
Durkheim, Emile, 100, 102, 103, 106–8, 113–15, 120
Eady, Trent, 73
Eagleman, David, 58
Ebner, Julia, 266–67
economy, 13, 152
education:
purpose of, 254
see also school; universities
emotional reactivity, 95–96
emotional reasoning, 3, 4, 33–51, 119, 177, 202, 208, 212, 241, 247, 259, 278
disinvitations of speakers and, 47–51
microaggressions and, 40–46
“see something, say something” and, 203–4
subjective standards and, 25–26
Enlightenment Now (Pinker), 264
Epictetus, 33, 34, 50
equality:
absolute, 65
distributive justice and, 218
fairness and, 218
equal-outcomes social justice, 223–27, 230, 231
equity theory, 218–20, 226, 227, 231
Essex County College, 134–35

Evergreen State College, 114–21, 133, 198
EverydayFeminism.com, 44
Excellent Sheep (Deresiewicz), 189
exclusion, 246–47
experience-expectant development, 182–84
fairness, 217–18, 222
equity theory and, 218–20, 226, 227, 231
procedural justice and, 219
see also justice
Fall of the Faculty, The: The Rise of the All-Administrative University and Why It Matters (Ginsberg),
198
Facebook, 49, 55, 105, 107, 130, 146–47, 207, 265
fascism, 86, 89, 92
FBI, 138, 166, 261
feminism, 49, 94, 104, 105, 107, 208
filter bubble, 130–31
First Amendment, 5, 64, 82, 116, 138, 200–201, 256
forbidden base rates, 229
fortune-telling, 89, 277
Foster, Karith, 44–45, 51, 55
Foucault, Michel, 69
Foundation for Individual Rights in Education (FIRE), 5, 47, 64, 74, 94, 135, 145, 200, 202, 204, 216, 255
Fox News, 118, 133–35
fragility, 2–4, 9, 14, 19–32, 119, 170, 171, 177, 196, 202, 212, 236, 258–59
antifragility, 22–24, 28, 31, 146, 164, 176, 178, 193, 206, 237, 246
see also safetyism
Franklin, Benjamin, 269
Free-Range Kids movement, 164, 211, 238
free-range parenting bill, 266
free speech, 5–6, 31, 65, 84, 138, 200–203, 207, 212, 251
Chicago Statement on Principles of Free Expression, 255–56, 268, 279–81
First Amendment and, 5, 64, 82, 116, 138, 200–201, 256
free speech zones, 202–3
and responding to pressure campaigns and outrage, 256–57
speech codes, 207, 256
Friedersdorf, Conor, 72
From #BlackLivesMatter to Black Liberation (Taylor), 135
Galileo’s Middle Finger (Dreger), 254–55
Game of Thrones, 201
Gandhi, Mahatma, 98
gap year, 250–51, 257
Gastañaga, Claire Guthrie, 92
Gawker, 228
Gelman, Andrew, 213, 214
gender pronouns, 24–25

General Motors (GM), 67
Generation X, 167, 174, 184–85
Generation Z, see iGen
genes, 182
Ghitza, Yair, 213, 214
Gibson, William, 9–10
Gingrich, Newt, 131
Ginsberg, Benjamin, 198
good people versus evil; us versus them, 3–4, 14, 53–77, 85, 90, 92, 119–20, 132, 177, 206, 243–44, 247,
259–60
see also groups
Gopnik, Alison, 21, 24
Grant, Adam, 240
Gray, Hanna Holborn, 50, 51
Gray, Peter, 183–85, 190–91, 193–94, 238
Greatest Generation, 110
Greek statues, 136–37
Green, Melanie, 159
grit, 190
Grit (Duckworth), 190
Gross, Neil, 88
groups, 44, 57–59, 68, 70–71, 76, 100, 120
collective effervescence in, 100, 103
minimal group paradigm, 57–58
moral matrices and, 9, 10
self-segregation in, 130
solidarity in, 108–9
tribalism and, 57–59, 76, 130, 131, 153, 267
us versus them and good people versus evil, 3–4, 14, 53–77, 85, 90, 92, 119–20, 132, 177, 206, 243–44,
247, 259–60
see also identity politics
groupthink, 73, 106, 108, 113, 131
Guinier, Lani, 222
Gulag Archipelago, The (Solzhenitsyn), ix, 243
Gunn, Tommy, 75
Haidt, Max, 19–20
Halloween costumes, 56, 102, 165
Hamid, Shadi, 42–43
Hampshire College, 135
Hannity, Sean, 132
Happiness Hypothesis, The (Haidt), 2, 35
harassment, concept creep and, 206–9
Harvard Law School, 205
Harvard University, 112, 253
Haslam, Nick, 25–26
hate crimes and speech, 86, 94, 126, 138–39

Haymarket riot, 201
Hennessy, Matthew, 49
Heterodox Academy, 248
Heyer, Heather, 91, 139
Heying, Heather, 116, 118
Higher Education Research Institute, 113
Hitler, Adolf, 63, 91
Hoffer, Eric, 99
Holder, Eric, 48
Holland, Stephen, 37
homework, 185–86, 245
honor cultures, 209
Horowitz, David, 83
Horwitz, Steven, 191–92, 211
How to Raise an Adult (Lythcott-Haims), 165
Huo, Yuen, 220
hygiene hypothesis, 21–22
Hypatia: A Journal of Feminist Philosophy, 104–5
Hyperallergic, 136
Identity Evropa, 136
identity politics, 59–67, 76, 259
common-enemy, 62–67, 71–73, 76, 77, 89–90, 119–20, 244
common-humanity, 60–62, 74–76, 221, 244
positive trends in, 266–67
schools and, 244
iGen, 146–51, 174–75, 178
anxiety and depression in, see anxiety; depression
college and, 31, 145, 148, 156–59, 174–75, 185
play and, 185
politics and, 213, 214
safetyism and, 30–31, 156, 158, 161
iGen (Twenge), 30–31, 146–49, 152–54, 159
immune system, 21–22, 164
Importance of Being Little, The (Christakis), 165
“In Defense of Transracialism” (Tuvel), 104–7, 121
institutionalized disconfirmation, 109, 110, 229
intellectual humility, 244, 247
intellectual virtues, 247, 258
Intellectual Virtues Academy, 247–48
intent, 51, 86, 104–5
charitability in interpreting, 42, 51, 55, 243–44, 260
impact versus, 43–44, 46
microaggression theory and, 40–46, 51, 71, 77
internet, 237, 241
see also social media
intersectionality, 67–69, 71, 76–77, 90

intimidation, 14, 81–98
intuitive justice, 217–21
distributive, 217–21, 227, 230, 231
procedural, 217, 219–22, 227, 230, 231
Islamist extremists, 266–67
Iyengar, Shanto, 130–32
Jacksonville State University, 202
Jandhyala, Pranav, 82
Jenner, Caitlyn, 104, 105, 205–6
Jennings, John, 82
Jensen, Mike, 205–6
Jews, 63, 90, 126
Jim Crow laws, 221
Johnson, Samuel, 269
Jones, Van, 96–98, 192, 259
judgment focus, 278
justice, 217–21, 223, 254
distributive, 217–21, 227, 230, 231
intuitive, 217–21
procedural, 217, 219–22, 227, 230, 231
see also social justice
Kabat-Zinn, Jon, 242
Kaiser, Sandra, 133
Kerr, Clark, 197
kindergarten, 185, 187–88
King, Martin Luther, Jr., 60–62, 75, 76, 98
Kipnis, Laura, 208–10
Krupenkin, Masha, 130–32
Ku Klux Klan, 12, 90, 91, 207
Kuran, Timur, 267
labeling, 38, 39, 50, 89, 145, 150, 277
LaFreniere, Peter, 181
Lagarde, Christine, 48
language development, 182
Lareau, Annette, 173–75, 179, 235
Las Vegas shooting, 12
law education, 205
Leahy, Robert, 37, 241–42
LEAP (Learning Early About Peanut Allergy), 20–21
learned helplessness, 158
Let Grow, 164, 238–39
Licence, 238–39
Levitsky, Steven, 131
Lexington High School, 190

Lilla, Mark, 74–75
Limbaugh, Rush, 132
locus of control, 46, 70, 158
Louisiana State University (LSU), 199
Lythcott-Haims, Julie, 165, 169–70, 190
Macaulay, Thomas Babington, 265
Mac Donald, Heather, 88–89, 126
Maher, Bill, 48
Mandela, Nelson, 81, 98
Manning, Jason, 209, 210
Mao Zedong, 100–101
Marano, Hara Estroff, 170
Marcus Aurelius, 95
Marcuse, Herbert, 64–71
marriage equality, 61–62
Martínez Valdivia, Lucía, 93
Marx, Karl, 64, 254
Marxism, 64, 65
matrix, matrices, 9–10
May Day, 201
McChrystal, Stanley, 251
McElroy, Wendy, 26–28
McGinn, Lata, 37
McLaughlin and Associates, 86
McNally, Richard, 29
McNeese State University, 203
McWhorter, John, 86
media, 130–32, 137
Meng Tzu (Mencius), 19
mental health, 26, 140, 143–61, 266
of college students, 156–59
in girls versus boys, 149–51, 154–56, 160, 161
self-harming and, 151, 195–96
and social media and phones, 146–47, 152–56, 159–61, 265
see also anxiety; depression
#MeToo Movement, 12, 27
microaggressions, 40–46, 51, 71, 77, 145, 205, 210, 260
Middlebury College, 12, 87–88, 90, 103, 127
Mill, John Stuart, 248
Millennials, 30, 31, 156, 160, 175, 178, 184–85, 188, 213
Milton, John, 34
mindfulness, 242
mind reading, 38, 41, 212, 277
Misoponos, 1–4, 14, 34, 50
moral dependency, 209–12
moral judgments, intent versus impact in, 43–44, 46

moral matrices, 9, 10, 58
moral values, 61–62
Morgan, Kathryn Pauly, 68–69
Murray, Charles, 87–88, 103, 127
Murray, Pauli, 61, 62, 75–76, 260
Nader, Ralph, 24
National Association of Social Workers, 220
National Center for Missing & Exploited Children, 166, 168
Nazis and neo-Nazis, 12, 63, 64, 90–92, 133, 139, 140
negative filtering, 38, 177, 277
negative partisanship, 131–32, 140
Neuromancer (Gibson), 9–10
New Jersey Transit, 203–4
New Jim Crow, The: Mass Incarceration in the Age of Colorblindness (Alexander), 74
New Left, 65, 67
New Republic, 6
Newsome, Hawk, 75–76
Newton, Isaac, 125
New York, 106
New Yorker, 205
New York Sun, 163
New York Times, 6, 26, 88, 92, 95, 127, 133, 190, 226
New York University (NYU), 204–5
Nietzsche, Friedrich, 2, 22
1960s, 213–14, 216, 230
No Child Left Behind, 188
Noonday Demon, The: An Atlas of Depression (Solomon), 143
Northern Michigan University, 200, 211
Northwestern University, 208
Notre Dame vs. the Klan: How the Fighting Irish Defeated the Ku Klux Klan (Tucker), 207
NW Anxiety Institute, 163
Oakton Community College, 201
Obama, Barack, 11, 96, 140, 214
Obama, Malia, 250
Oberlin College, 24–25
Occupy Wall Street, 129
Oliver, Kelly, 106–7
Olivia (Claremont student), 53–55, 175
Once and Future Liberal, The: After Identity Politics (Lilla), 74–75
On Liberty (Mill), 248
oppression, 6, 44, 46, 57, 64, 65, 68–71
Orlando nightclub shooting, 12
Ostrom, Elinor, 191
Ostrom, Vincent, 191, 192
Our Kids: The American Dream in Crisis (Putnam), 173–76

overgeneralizing, 38, 39, 50, 277
overprotection, 13
in parenting, 126, 148, 164, 165, 167–72, 183, 201–2, 235, 236, 266
see also fragility; parenting; safetyism
overreaction, 201, 203
overregulation, 201–3
parenting, 125, 126, 163–79, 192
and actual versus imagined risk, 167–68
and arrest for neglect, 171–72, 266
and assuming capability in children, 237
and child’s walking to places alone, 169–70, 237–39
cognitive distortions and, 177–78
concerted cultivation style of, 173, 174, 176, 179, 235–36
free-range, 164, 211, 238, 266, 268
Let Grow License and, 238–39
natural growth style of, 174, 179
overprotective (helicopter), 126, 148, 164, 165, 167–72, 183, 201–2, 235, 236, 266
prepare the child for the road, not the road for the child, 23, 237–40
risk taking and, 238
school policies and, 245–49
social class and, 173–76, 179
societal pressures and, 171
suggestions for, 235–51
Parker, Sean, 147
Paros, Mike, 118
Patz, Etan, 165, 166
Paxson, Christina, 27
“Paying the Price for Breakdown of the Country’s Bourgeois Culture” (Wax and Alexander), 107–8, 121
peanut allergies, 19–21, 23–24, 30, 164, 236, 237
Peck, Don, 10
personalizing, 277
Pew Research Center, 128
phones, 30, 146, 147, 152–54, 159–61, 194, 214
and limiting device time, 249–50
school and, 247
see also social media
Pinker, Steven, 264, 265
play, 125, 126, 178, 181–94
brain and, 181–84, 193
free, 183–86, 188, 189, 191, 193–94, 235–37, 245–46, 266
importance of, 181–83, 193–94
outdoor, 184, 186, 266
playgrounds, 183, 238
risk and, 183–85, 236, 238, 246
polarization, 121, 125–41, 251, 265
affective, 129, 131–32, 141

outrage and, 133–38, 261
police, attitudes toward, 219–20
political correctness, 46, 94–95, 202
Political Tribes: Group Instinct and the Fate of Nations (Chua), 267
politics, 213–14
alt-right, 81, 84, 118, 139, 266
bipartisanship in, 131
birth year and, 213–14
filter bubble and, 130–31
left-wing, 5, 110–13, 126–27, 132–38, 141, 199
negative partisanship in, 131–32
from 1940s to 1980, 130
right-wing, 5, 63, 110–13, 118, 126, 127, 132–38, 141
universities and, 110–13, 121, 126–27, 132–38, 141, 199, 258
see also polarization
Pomona College, 89–90
positives, discounting, 38, 177, 277
post-traumatic stress disorder (PTSD), 25, 28–29
power, 53, 66
intersectionality and, 68
prejudice, 25, 40–44, 46
see also racism
Princeton Review, 189
principle of charity, 42, 51, 55, 243–44, 260
privilege, 68–71
problems of progress, 13–14, 170, 264
procedural justice, 217, 219–22, 227, 230, 231
professors:
political perspectives of, 110–13, 121, 258
retraction demands and, 103–4, 107–8, 121
social media and, 137, 141, 201
trust between students and, 205–6, 212
viewpoint solidarity and diversity among, 108–13, 121, 258
proportionality, 217–19, 224, 227
proportional-procedural social justice, 220–23, 231
Putnam, Robert, 173–76, 236
racism, 6, 42, 44–45, 64, 71, 140
civil rights movement and, 60–61
Halloween costumes and, 56, 102, 165
intimidation and threats, 138–40
Jim Crow laws, 221
white supremacists, 12, 86, 87, 89–91, 94
Rage, The: The Vicious Circle of Islamist and Far Right Extremism (Ebner), 266–67
rape culture, 26–28
rape law, teaching of, 205
Rational Optimist, The (Ridley), 264–65

Rauch, Jonathan, 59, 267
Rawls, John, 213
Redelsheimer, Katrina, 82
Reed College, 93, 127
regret orientation, 278
religion:
American civil, 60–61
rituals in, 100
Renaissance, 136
“Repressive Tolerance” (Marcuse), 65–67
Republicans, 129–31, 213, 216
see also politics
rider-and-elephant metaphor, 35, 36, 51, 62
Ridley, Matt, 264–65
Righteous Mind, The: Why Good People Are Divided by Politics and Religion (Haidt), 9
Right on Crime, 74
Rise of the Warrior Cop: The Militarization of America’s Police Forces (Balko), 74
risk, 185, 237
actual versus imagined, 167–68
play and, 183–85, 236, 238, 246
see also safety
rituals, 100
Roberts, John, 192–93
Roman statues, 136–37
Roof, Dylann, 139
Roosevelt, Franklin D., 74
Sacks, Jonathan, 53, 64
safety, 6–7, 9, 14, 24–25, 29–30, 96, 148
and actual versus imagined risk, 167–68
crime and, 167, 186, 238, 266
improvements in child safety, 168–69
meaning of, and concept creep, 24–25, 27, 246–47, 259
threats and, 138–40, 260–61
safetyism, 29–30, 85, 104, 121, 125, 164, 165, 194, 203, 246–47
on campus, 12, 24–26, 96–97, 125, 145–46, 148, 195–212, 268
cognitive distortions and, 177–78
dangers of, 168–71
exclusion and, 246–47
iGen and, 30–31, 156, 158, 161
overprotective parenting, 126, 148, 164, 165, 167–72
rise of, 24–26, 121
safe spaces, 26–31, 96, 145, 210, 259
school and, 236
trigger warnings, 6–7, 24, 28, 29, 31, 145, 210
Salem witch hunts, 99–100
San Bernardino attack, 12

Sanders, Bernie, 213
Savio, Mario, 84
schemas, 36–38, 57, 150, 177
Schill, Michael, 92
school (K–12), 59, 185–89, 194
college admissions and, 189–91, 194, 235, 236, 257–58, 268
debate teaching in, 248
discussions on coursework in, 248
first-grade readiness checklists, 186–87, 238
grades in, 190
homework, 185–86, 245
ideas for elementary schools, 245–47
ideas for middle schools and high schools, 247–49
identity politics and, 244
influencing policies at, 245–49
kindergarten, 185, 187–88
phones at, 247
recess at, 245–47
safetyism and, 236
year of service or work between high school and college, 250–51, 257
Schulz, Kathryn, 244
“see something, say something,” 203–4
Seligman, Martin, 158
September 11, 2001, attacks, 200, 203
Service Year Alliance, 251
sexism, 6, 44, 71
sexual misconduct and assault, 27
law education and, 205
#MeToo Movement and, 12, 27
Shakespeare, William, 34
Shapiro, Ben, 83
Sheskin, Mark, 218
shoulds, 277
Shuchman, Daniel, 238
Shulevitz, Judith, 26–28
Silverglate, Harvey, 74
Simmons, Ruth, 259
Singal, Jesse, 106
Skenazy, Lenore, 163–65, 169, 171, 172, 177, 185, 211, 238
sleep, 250
smartphones, see phones
Smith College, 72
snowballs, and danger, 236
social class:
parenting and, 173–76, 179
universities and, 174, 176
social justice, 111, 125, 126, 213–32
and correlation as causation, 227–29, 231–32

definition and use of term, 217, 220–21, 223
equal-outcomes, 223–27, 230, 231
major news stories related to, 214–16
proportional-procedural, 220–23, 231
social media, 5, 10, 30, 130, 133, 139, 145, 194, 203, 259
call-out culture and, 71–73
curation and comparisons in, 154–55, 161
Facebook, 49, 55, 105, 107, 130, 146–47, 207, 265
impact on girls, 154–56
and limiting device time, 249–50
mental health and, 146–47, 152–56, 159–61, 265
positive trends in, 265–66
professors and, 137, 141, 201
Twitter, 81, 130, 135–37, 147, 265
virtue signaling and, 73
Socrates, 49, 50
Solomon, Andrew, 143
Solzhenitsyn, Aleksandr, ix, 243
Soviet Union, 130, 243
Spellman, Mary, 54–55, 57, 71, 102–3, 105–6, 134
Spencer, Richard, 139
Spock, Benjamin, 174
sports, 152, 189, 225–26
Title IX and, 224–25
spurious correlations, 152, 228
Stalin, Joseph, 243
Stanger, Allison, 87–88, 103, 127, 140
Starmans, Christina, 218
statues, Greco-Roman, 136–37
“sticks and stones” saying, 210
Stoicism, 95–96, 98
Stone, Geoffrey, 255, 279
Student Nonviolent Coordinating Committee, 84
Sue, Derald Wing, 40–42
suicide, 5, 24, 30, 143–44, 152
academic competition and, 190
rates of, 150–51, 160, 183, 190
sharing thoughts of, 195–96
Suk Gersen, Jeannie, 205
summer camps, 240
Supreme Court, 61
Tajfel, Henri, 57–58, 76
Taleb, Nassim Nicholas, 22–23, 28, 164, 170
Tannen, Deborah, 154
Taylor, Keeanga-Yamahtta, 135–36
Tea Party, 129

telos, 253–55
Tenbrink, Tyler, 139
terrorism, 11–12, 204
September 11, 2001, attacks, 200, 203
Tetlock, Phil, 229
Texas State University, 63–64, 67
Theodoric, 34
Theory of Justice, A (Rawls), 213
Thinking in Bets: Making Smarter Decisions When You Don’t Have All the Facts (Duke), 248–49
threats, 138–40, 260–61
Three Felonies a Day: How the Feds Target the Innocent (Silverglate), 74
Thucydides, 108–9
Title IX, 206–8, 223–25
Tocqueville, Alexis de, 191, 195
tolerance, 65–66
transgenderism, 104–5, 205–6
transracialism, 104
trauma, 25–26, 28–29, 31–32, 33
PTSD, 25, 28–29
Treatment Plans and Interventions for Depression and Anxiety Disorders (Leahy, Holland, and McGinn),
37
tribalism, 57–59, 76, 130, 131, 153, 267
see also groups
trigger warnings, 6–7, 24, 28, 29, 31, 145, 210
Trump, Donald, 12, 82–83, 87, 96, 112, 114, 127, 135, 139, 140
Charlottesville and, 91, 94
supporters of, 75–76, 81, 83
truth, 253–55, 268
Tucker Carlson Tonight, 118, 133, 134
Turning Point USA (TPUSA), 138
Tuvel, Rebecca, 104–7, 121, 127
Twenge, Jean, 30–31, 146–49, 152–54, 159, 160, 164, 185
Twitter, 81, 130, 135–37, 147, 265
Tyler, Tom, 219–20
Tyranny of the Majority, The (Guinier), 222
UCLA, 92
Unequal Childhoods: Class, Race, and Family Life (Lareau), 173–75
unfair comparisons, 278
universities, 5, 8, 10, 11, 59, 125–26, 214
admissions to, 189–91, 194, 235, 236, 257–58, 268
amenities at, 199, 211
bureaucracy at, 125, 126, 192, 194, 195–212
canon wars at, 7
Chicago Statement and, 255–56, 268, 279–81
consumerist mentality at, 198–200, 211
corporatization of, 197–98, 211

cross-partisan events at, 261
distorted thinking modeled by administrators at, 200–203
diversity among professors in, 108–13, 121, 258
diversity among students in, 43, 258, 260
expansion of, 197–98
freedom of inquiry at, 255–57
free speech at, 5–6, 31, 65, 84, 200–203
heckler’s veto and, 257
iGen and, 31, 145, 148, 156–59, 174–75, 185
intellectual virtues and, 258
intimidation and violence at, 81–98
mental health and, 156–59
as multiversities, 197, 253
political orientation and, 110–13, 121, 126–27, 132–38, 141, 199, 258
preparation for life following, 8–9
productive disagreement in, 258–60
regulations at, 192, 200–203, 211–12
and responding to pressure campaigns and outrage, 256–57
retraction demands at, 103–4, 107–8, 121
safe spaces and, 26–31, 96, 145, 210, 259
safetyism at, 12, 24–26, 96–97, 125, 145–46, 148, 195–212, 268; see also safetyism
school spirit at, 260
social class and, 174, 176
speakers at, 6, 27, 47–51, 87, 199
suggestions for, 253–62
trigger warnings and, 6–7, 24, 28, 29, 31, 145, 210
trust between professors and students at, 205–6, 212
truth and, 253–55, 268
wisdom and, 253–62
University of California, 197
Berkeley, 12, 81–87, 90, 94, 120
Los Angeles, 92
University of Central Florida, 207
University of Chicago, 119, 251, 253, 268
Chicago Statement on Principles of Free Expression, 255–56, 268, 279–81
University of Cincinnati, 203
University of Connecticut, 202
University of Iowa, 136–37
University of Michigan, 184, 207
University of Missouri, 11
University of Northern Colorado, 205–6
University of Oregon, 92
University of Pennsylvania, 107, 108
University of Virginia, 12, 188, 223–27
University of West Alabama, 202
Unsafe at Any Speed (Nader), 24
us versus them; good people versus evil, 3–4, 14, 53–77, 85, 90, 92, 119–20, 132, 177, 206, 243–44, 247,
259–60

see also groups
vaccination, 21
Valenti, Jessica, 26–27
Venker, Suzanne, 49
victimhood culture, 209–10
victimization, 41–42, 46, 57, 126
viewpoint diversity, 11, 109, 112–13, 121, 248, 258
vindictive protectiveness, 10, 235
violence, 81–98
definition of, 85–86
words as, 84–86, 89, 94–98, 145, 158
Virginia Rowing Association, 223
virtue signaling, 73
vulnerability, culture of, 209, 210
see also fragility
Wall Street Journal, 222
Walsh, Adam, 165–66
Walsh, John, 166
Ward, Douglas Turner, 114
War on Cops, The (Mac Donald), 88
Washington Post, 93, 199
Wax, Amy, 107–8, 121, 126
Weinstein, Bret, 114–19, 127, 133
“what if” questions, 278
Where You Go Is Not Who You Will Be: An Antidote to the College Admissions Mania (Bruni), 190
white genocide, 135, 136
white nationalists and white supremacists, 12, 86, 87, 89–91, 94, 135, 136, 139, 140, 266
Will, George, 48
William & Mary, 92
Williams College, 49–50
Wilson, E. O., 7
wisdom, 1–15
children and, 235–51
societies and, 263–69
universities and, 253–62
witch hunts, 99–121
crimes against collective in, 101, 119
fear of defending the accused in, 102, 106–7, 119
four properties of, 101–2, 119, 120
retraction demands and, 103–4, 107–8, 121
in Salem, 99–100
as sudden outbursts, 110, 119
trivial or fabricated charges in, 102, 106, 119
Wood, Zachary, 49, 50
words:

choice of, 54–55, 102–3, 105–6
as violence, 84–86, 89, 94–98, 145, 158
World War II, 57, 92, 110, 130
Yale University, 11, 55–57, 61, 102, 120, 165, 189, 253
Yiannopoulos, Milo, 48, 50, 81–85, 95, 97, 120
YouTube, 55, 130
Ziblatt, Daniel, 131
Zimmer, Robert, 251

ABCDEFGHIJKLMNOPQRSTUVWXYZ

About the Authors

Greg Lukianoff is the president and CEO of the Foundation for Individual
Rights in Education (FIRE). Lukianoff is a graduate of American University
and Stanford Law School. He specializes in free speech and First Amendment
issues in higher education. He is the author of Unlearning Liberty: Campus
Censorship and the End of American Debate and Freedom From Speech.
Jonathan Haidt is the Thomas Cooley Professor of Ethical Leadership at New
York University’s Stern School of Business. He obtained his Ph.D. in social
psychology from the University of Pennsylvania in 1992, and then taught at
the University of Virginia for 16 years. He is the author of The Righteous
Mind and The Happiness Hypothesis.

What’s next on
your reading list?
Discover your next
great read!
Get personalized book picks and up-to-date news about this
author.

Sign up now.

