Iconic Black Women

Who Revolutionized Fashion

MODELS

SUPREME

Iconic Black Women

Who Revolutionized Fashion

Abrams, New York

Marcellas Reynolds

|

Foreword by Veronica Webb

MODELS

SUPREME

4

CONTENT

8

|

Foreword by Veronica Webb

12

|

Introduction

14

|

The Trailblazers:

Ophelia DeVore

Dorothea Towles

Helen Williams

18

|

The Godmother:

Bethann Hardison

S

236

|

Acknowledgments

234

|

Credits

26

|

The Supremes:

Iman Abdulmajid

Adwoa Aboah

Adut Akech

Karen Alexander

Leomie Anderson

Georgie Badiel

Cynthia Bailey

Tyra Banks

Shari Belafonte

Grace Bol

Maria Borges

Kersti Bowser

Ysaunny Brito

Naomi Campbell

Pat Cleveland

Rose Cordero

Ajak Deng

Peggy Dillard

Janiece

Altagracia Dilone

Jourdan Dunn

Cora Emmanuel

Amilna Estevão

Malaika Firth

Quiana Grant

Imaan Hammam

Theresa Hayes

Tomiko Fraser Hines

Chanel Iman

Beverly Johnson

Aya Jones

Grace Jones

Kiara Kabukuru

Liya Kebede

Precious Lee

Sessilee Lopez

Karly Loyce

Donyale Luna

Anais Mali

Riley Montana

Kai Newman

Mayowa Nicholas

Gail O’Neill

Lana Ogilvie

Oluchi Onweagba

Mounia Orosemane

Lorraine Pascale

Nykhor Paul

Emanuela de Paula

Beverly Peele

Brandi Quinones

Daphne Maxwell Reid

Lais Ribeiro

Stephanie Roberts

Lois Samuels

Naomi Sims

Joan Smalls

Arlenis Sosa

Aya Thorgren

Duckie Thot

Jasmine Tookes

Ilonka Toppenberg

Louise Vyent

Veronica Webb

Alek Wek

Jessica White

Jeneil Williams

Roshumba Williams

Tami Williams

Anok Yai

Kara Young

MODEL

MAGIC.

Foreword by Veronica Webb

9

ING IS

Modeling at its best creates images that portray women in com-

mand of health and wealth, while utilizing all the beauty the world

has to offer. The magic of modeling lies in casting a spell; it begins

by applying your intelligence and imagination to the challenge

of “How will I go out and conquer the world today?” Glamorous

enchantments conjured up in the privacy of your bathroom or on

the go—women waving a mascara wand over their eyelashes in

the rearview mirror on the way to work.

Magic happens all over the world, every day, with women using

fashion and beauty to enhance their control over a situation. I’ve

experienced absolute heights of confidence-building at dressing-

room tables backstage as a makeup artist and hairdresser artfully

apply makeup to show me at my best. Designers have taught me

how to use clothes as armor that not only flatters my silhouette

but also helps me establish and defend my position in the world.

I love the feeling of holding the world in thrall when a full-blown

version of my dream self emerges. Modeling may indeed be

a form of magic, but I’m about to make one of the biggest

myths about models go poof!: Effortless is bullshit. Don’t. Ever.

Forget. That.

Modeling is hard work. For a model to make money and be suc-

cessful, she’d better work out like a pro athlete and eat like a heart

surgeon. The dark side of the industry is loneliness and physical

deprivation. I admit I was hungry for the better part of twenty

years to maintain the industry’s ideal on-camera and runway

weight. There’s a lot of suffering involved in being a successful

model. Never turn down a great job unless it’s a matter of life or

death—or if you can’t show up and be at your best. I missed huge

chunks of my family’s life—family time I’ll never get back—living

in New York and Paris while they were all in Detroit.

Time and modeling are not friends; careers are short, typically

three to five years at best. Most do not make a lot of money model-

ing. There are a number of expenses involved in creating a career

as a model: maintaining an apartment in a major fashion city like

Paris, New York, Milan, or Los Angeles; flying to follow the work

in those fashion capitals; accountants, lawyers (never sign any-

thing without a lawyer looking it over), beauty treatments, gyms,

and personal trainers. Plus the cost of the wardrobe it takes to

be presentable at castings. All that adds up to nearly one year

of college tuition, most of which comes out of the model’s own

pocket until she’s made enough to cover expenses. If a model is

fortunate enough to become a favorite among magazines and the

few designers that have big budgets, these expenses are covered,

but only while the model is at the top. What’s a model’s largest

expenditure? Agency fees. The modeling agency standard is to

take 20 percent from the model and another 20 percent from the

client—which is 40 percent of the income a model generates.

10

Modeling is not easy, but it’s exciting. Access to the world’s most

beautiful cities, best restaurants, and cultural events were some

of the job’s greatest perks. I flourished under the wings of great

designers. Azzedine Alaïa, who personally fought for me to get

my first magazine covers and made the most exquisite clothes in

the history of fashion. Karl Lagerfeld, who championed me as a

muse and model on the runways of Chanel and introduced me

to European royalty, letting me know I belonged anywhere in

the world I might choose to go. Isaac Mizrahi, the fearless boy

genius of fashion, whose wit and whimsy in his masterful collec-

tions expanded the boundaries of what a designer could be. Our

friendship gave me the courage to branch out into my career as

a writer. Isaac also, always, no matter what, LOVED MY HAIR.

Thank you, Isaac, for always featuring black women’s beauty.

I’ve seen modeling as magical since I was a little girl staring at

women I idolized and dreamed of working with one day—all of

whom are women you will meet in the pages of this book.

Supreme

Models

celebrates the power of black women models not only to

inspire and transform attitudes of personal beauty, but also to

educate the world about the beauty of our hair, our lips, our hips,

and all the glorious shades of black women’s skin, from alabaster

to onyx. With this, modeling is also powerful.

What means the most to me about my career? I have black, brown,

Latin, and Asian women approach me all over the world and say,

“When I saw you on the cover of

Elle,

I knew I was beautiful,

too.” There are times when these stories move me to tears. I had

a chance encounter in line at the grocery store with a woman who

recognized me from modeling. Her skin was a beautiful shade of

mahogany. She had a crown of coarse, curly hair, broad features,

and an uneasy smile. She shared this story with me: “My parents

sat me down when we got to the US from Pakistan. I was twelve

years old. They said, ‘You will never be considered beautiful in

America because you don’t have blond hair and blue eyes.’” I felt

sadness for her, and rage at that damaging message welled up in

me as I listened. She assured me that she understands now that

her parents were only trying to protect her feelings by prepar-

ing her for what they feared life in the United States had in store

for her. “When I saw your

Elle

cover, I showed it to my parents,”

she said. “I told them, ‘If Veronica Webb is beautiful, then I’m

beautiful.’” That is the true magic of modeling.

Photographed by Pamela Hanson,

Vogue

Italia, January 1993

12

GROWING

BLACK

in America was a constant reminder that in the eyes of some you

are less than others. On the news, there were images of the black

male cast as criminal. On Chicago’s South Side, where I was born

and raised, there were drugs, gangs, and violence. It was a mosaic

both depressing and frightening to a child learning from the

world around him. Add to that the fact that I am gay. Before I even

knew who I was, others labeled me cruelly. Trust me: Nothing is

worse in an African American neighborhood than being the gay

kid. A good day was not being beaten up or bullied. Though my

childhood sounds terrible, there was also beauty. My mother’s

face, and my grandmama’s laugh. And there was fashion. My

mother and beloved grandmama were fashionistas before the

term existed. I remember helping my mother BeDazzle her

jeans. My mom, who each Friday after work had her hair done,

was so beautiful, she took my breath away. My grandmother was

the best-dressed woman I knew. I remember her favorite coat—

a camel cashmere cape with a mink collar—and how happy she

was as she modeled it on Christmas morning with laughter,

smiles, and swirls.

As a child, I raced home after school to watch television. My eyes

always found the person of color in films and on TV. They made

me feel like I belonged. My favorite movie was

Mahogany.

Diana

Ross plays Tracy Chambers, a fashion student from Chicago’s

South Side who dreams of being a designer. Tracy, discovered

assisting on a fashion shoot, is whisked away to Rome, where she

becomes a famous model. I watched that movie a hundred times.

I never thought that one day I would become a model and live and

work in Italy. My favorite TV shows were

Charlie’s Angels

and

The Love Boat.

The Angels got to be everything: race car drivers,

jockeys, and fashion models!

The Love Boat

went to exotic places,

where people had witty conversations and fell in love. I wanted

that.

My grandmother had subscriptions to

Ebony

and

Jet

magazines,

which I read from cover to cover, savoring each word and image.

Ebony

was the barometer of who mattered and why within the

black community. There is a cover of Sammy Davis Jr. standing in

front of his Hollywood mansion, wearing a blazer, looking every

inch a success. To this day whenever I wear a blazer or a suit, I

think of that cover and the power clothing can project. Growing

up, more than anyone, it’s Iman who to me was the absolute height

of fashion.

Ebony

and

Essence

documented her every move. One

Essence

cover stands out the most: It’s Iman with her then-

husband Spencer Haywood and their daughter. Iman looked

beautiful and exotic. Spencer was handsome and looked kind.

Their daughter was smiling. They seemed like a happy black

nuclear family. Something I never had. In high school, I sub-

scribed to

GQ

because of a male model named Rashid Silvera.

Rashid was always in

GQ

, and I coveted everything he wore.

Rashid taught me how a man should dress. Fashion magazines

and black models were like air to me. I needed them to breathe.

In magazine editorials, I’d see models like Peggy Dillard, Maria

McDonald, and Karen Williams at parties or jet-setting to exotic

locations. They seemed happy and carefree, or sexy and desired.

Whatever they had, I wanted it, too, and an idea grew into a mis-

sion. I was going to live that life.

Introduction

13

UP

At fifteen I got my first job as a stock boy at T. Edwards, a high-end

women’s boutique in Chicago’s Water Tower Place. I would be on

a ladder changing a light bulb, or dusting fixtures, and a customer

would ask my opinion about an outfit. I was selling clothes when

I should have been cleaning or restocking merchandise. My man-

ager, Heidi Sherwin, recognized this and immediately promoted

me. Soon I was the number two salesperson in the company,

learning about fashion and meeting people of all nationalities and

sexual orientations. As a gay teen, I found acceptance, finally. For

once I was told I was good and that I mattered. Years later, while I

was working my way through college at the University of Illinois,

Mary Boncher and Marie Anderson, the agent who discovered

supermodel Cindy Crawford, found me waiting tables. I thought

it was a joke. Me, a model? Like Iman, Sheila Johnson, and the

divine Kersti Bowser, whom my high school girlfriends and I fol-

lowed religiously in the pages of

Seventeen

? Could I be a model

like the GODDESS Naomi Campbell, whose every move, every

photograph, every strut down the runway I devoured as though

it were food for my fashion soul? Signing with Aria Models, I

grabbed that opportunity and never once looked back.

Modeling became my university and took me all over the world.

I walked the runways for Tommy Hilfiger, Ralph Lauren, and

Nautica. I lived in London and shot catalog photos every day. I

worked in Paris, loving its beauty and people. I lived eight to a

room in Milan during show season. I shot with legendary photog-

raphers Norman Jean Roy and Bruce Weber. Through fashion, I

met other models, as well as editors, hairstylists, makeup artists,

and photographers, most of whom are still in my life. I owe every-

thing I am to the crazy, exciting, and endlessly fascinating world

of fashion.

I wrote

Supreme Models

as a way to tell the stories of so many

women whose careers and lives have inspired me and countless

others. We have seen their pictures and perhaps heard the sto-

ries of their discoveries. Everyone knows how Iman, Naomi, and

Tyra became one-name phenomena, but what about top models

Karen Alexander, Lana Ogilvie, and Roshumba Williams, or the

new supers, like Adut Akech, Dilone, and Mayowa Nicholas?

This book isn’t just beautiful pictures of beautiful women. I hope

Supreme Models

gives the reader some insight into the determi-

nation and sacrifice it took each of the women highlighted here to

become successful in fashion and in life. One thing I learned while

interviewing these extraordinary women is that there is no testi-

mony without a test. Modeling isn’t easy. As my friend Veronica

Webb writes in the foreword, “Modeling is hard work. . . . There’s

a lot of suffering involved in being a successful model.” Often, we

only see the result, which is a perfect photo, or perhaps a flaw-

less turn on the runway. I hope that everyone who reads this book

learns something about the models included within—and more

about the businesses of fashion and modeling. But what I want

most is for

Supreme Models

to be a source for the little boys, or

girls, who, like my childhood self, need to see themselves repre-

sented in a positive light.

—Marcellas Reynolds

TRAIL

THE

BLAZERS

16

T

he conversation about black models cannot

begin

without

acknowledging

three

trailblazing

women—

Ophelia DeVore, Dorothea Towles, and Helen Williams—who

broke down barriers and changed the face of fashion in the 1940s,

’50s, and ’60s. The story starts in 1938, when sixteen-year-old

Ophelia DeVore enrolled at the Vogue School of Fashion Model-

ling in New York—which did not accept black students. It seems

the school assumed Ophelia was Caucasian because of her light

skin. After graduation, Ophelia appeared in local ads and fashion

shows, but steady modeling work eluded her until a new black

publication,

Ebony,

launched in 1945. Though she appeared

regularly in

Ebony,

Ophelia, frustrated by what she saw as racism

in mainstream fashion, opened the Grace del Marco Modeling

Agency with the help of four friends. “I didn’t wait for somebody

to make a plan or a road map for me. I did it for myself,” Ophelia

would later tell the Associated Press in 2013 about her prolific

career. As an agent, Ophelia was an advocate for diversity within

the fashion industry and was partly responsible for the successes

of two of the top models of the 1950s—Dorothea Towles and

Helen Williams.

While pursuing a master’s degree in education at the University

of Southern California, Dorothea Towles enrolled in the Doro-

United States

|

1940s–1960s

Dorothea Towles, photographed by Loebel,

Jet,

August 1952

DOROTHEA TOWLES,

OPHELIA DEVORE,

HELEN WILLIAMS

17

thy Farrier Charm and Modeling School as its first black student.

Soon she began appearing in local black fashion shows and maga-

zines. However, it was during a European vacation in 1949 that

her career seriously began when legendary designer Christian

Dior chose Dorothea as one of his house models. For the next five

years, she would work for designers Pierre Balmain, Dior, and

Elsa Schiaparelli, making her the first black model to appear on

Parisian haute couture runways. Of her time in France, Dorothea

told

Women’s Wear Daily

in 2004, “If you’re beautiful they don’t

care what color you are. . . . For once I was not considered black,

African American, or Negro. I was just an American.” Return-

ing to the United States in 1954, Dorothea, who had amassed a

collection of haute couture clothing, organized touring fashion

shows at black colleges that showcased her collection on black

models and donated the proceeds to her sorority, Alpha Kappa

Alpha. She continued modeling into the 1970s in both the United

States and Europe.

Before Donyale Luna, Iman, and Naomi Campbell, there was

model Helen Williams. Until Helen, only lighter-skinned beau-

ties like Dorothea Towles were considered attractive enough to

model. In the mid-1950s, while Helen was working as a stylist in

New York, a photographer suggested she try modeling. That con-

nection led to multiple bookings with

Ebony

and

Jet

magazines,

making Helen the first dark-skinned model to break into black

publications. She eventually signed with the Grace del Marco

Agency, finding a kindred spirit in agent Ophelia DeVore, but

became frustrated by the type of work she was receiving—which

she, too, attributed to discrimination. In 1960, at the urging of

Ophelia, Helen left for Paris, where she triumphed working for

designers Jean Dessès and Christian Dior. That success led to

recognition in the United States, and upon her return, she began

appearing in ads for mainstream companies like Bulova and

Noxzema and in publications like the

New York Times

and

Cosmopolitan.

Ophelia DeVore, Dorothea Towles, and Helen Williams each had

similar dreams, which became a mission shared. Trailblazers and

nonconformists, these three women fought the common percep-

tion of black women in 1940s and ’50s America. Ophelia DeVore

created an agency celebrating beauty in all its diverse shades and

left a lasting legacy in both fashion and entertainment. Dorothea

Towles and Helen Williams became the first black models to

conquer the runways of Paris during the 1950s and ’60s. They

changed the face of haute couture and blazed a trail for all models

of color for decades to come.

Helen Williams, photographed by Moneta Sleet Jr.,

Ebony,

January 1959

GOD

THE

MOTHER

BETHANN

HARDISON

Clients:

Barneys New York, Halston, Stephen Burrows, Willi Smith

Magazines:

Allure

, American

Vogue, Essence, Harper’s Bazaar

US

United States

|

1968–Present

Fashion designer Diane von Furstenberg declared Bethann Hardison “the godmother of all the wonderful, beautiful models.” Over her

fifty-year career, she has been a model, an agent, and a champion of change. Bethann is responsible, in part, for the successes of many of

the world’s top models, like Tyson Beckford, Veronica Webb, and Roshumba Williams. Before launching her eponymous agency in 1984,

she began her career as a model and soon became a confidant and muse to several of fashion’s most celebrated designers, including

Stephen Burrows, Halston, and Willi Smith. A prolific runway model in the 1970s, Bethann was one of eleven African American women

who walked in 1973’s Battle of Versailles fashion show at the Palace of Versailles in France. To this day, Bethann remains a powerful voice

for diversity in fashion. From the Black Girls Coalition, which she founded in the early nineties, to the Diversity Coalition, which she

established in 2013, Bethann continues to work moving fashion ever forward by making it more inclusive.

Photographed by Nico Bustos,

Fashion & Arts Magazine,

May 2016

22

MARCELLAS: How did you start modeling?

BETHANN:

I never wanted to be a model, but it was [designer

Willi Smith] encouraging me to be one. Willi used to see me on

the streets of the Garment District. He loved my style. At that

time, he had just begun as the designer with a company called

Digits. He was being written up in

Women’s Wear Daily,

and he

wanted me to be his model because he didn’t have one. He asked

if sometimes I could go out with him when people wanted him

to do presentations. I said, “I think so.” I went up and talked to

my bosses, my godmothers, these two Jewish women, Ruth and

Sylvia. Sylvia was always so encouraging, and she said, “Abso-

lutely! This is so nice for you!” That’s how it started. Willi kept

encouraging me that I could be a print girl. . . . I was not meant to

be a print girl, because it didn’t play out that way, but I became a

successful runway model. I kept a full-time job the whole time. I

was a model everybody wanted, but I never trusted the industry.

I could never imagine being a full-time model.

You were there when black models were finally having a

moment.

I wouldn’t say “finally having a moment,” because it was never like

we were beating down the doors and everyone was saying “No!”

[

Laughs

] It wasn’t always like that. Black Beauties was a model

agency, and Ophelia DeVore had the Grace del Marco Agency.

There was a market for black models, and there were people who

were working. The fact is that when the civil rights movement

happened, “Black Is Beautiful” was a thing that white kids came

up with at advertising agencies. It became a thing they ran with

because they thought it was timely. There were so many great

things happening in the late sixties, and at the end of the day, [for]

people of color, between the hippies and the Vietnam War and

all that, things changed. We got there organically because, even

before there was a market, people were buying black and putting

blacks in advertising.

I think a time when we got light shined on us was in the seven-

ties. Things were happening, and wonderful designers were

coming along, like Giorgio di Sant’ Angelo, Halston, and Scott

Barrie. Willi Smith was already there. Stephen Burrows. Exciting

people were coming along, producing beautiful things and liking

anything that was interesting. Whether you were black, white, or

whatever, you were in if you were interesting and had style.

Bethann Management is legendary in the business of mod-

eling. How did you transition from model to agency owner?

I stopped modeling in 1981. When the early eighties began, I

1968

Bethann is discovered by

designer Willi Smith

1973

Walks in the historic Battle

of Versailles for designers

Bill Blass, Stephen Burrows,

Halston, Anne Klein, and

Oscar de la Renta

Early 1980s

Stops modeling and helps

start Click Model Manage-

ment with owners Frances

Grill, Joey Grill, and Allan

Mindel

1984

Creates Bethann Manage-

ment, managing the careers

of Tyson Beckford, Bonnie

Berman, Josie Borain, Anh

Duong, and Veronica Webb

1989

Launches the Black Girls

Coalition with Iman “to

celebrate the successes of

the black model”

1993

With members of the Black

Girls Coalition, including

Tyra Banks, Kersti Bowser,

Gail O’Neill, Beverly Peele,

and Veronica Webb, holds

a press conference that

challenges the advertis-

ing industry and calls for

increased diversity in

campaigns

Bethann Hardison:

Career Timeline

•

--------------

•

------------------------

•

-------------------------

•

-------------------------

•

---------------------

•

---------------------------------------------------------------------

A Conversation with Bethann

23

agreed to help start Click Model Management. There I began to

notice something. I got a firsthand look at how people perceived

others. For example,

Vogue

wanted to believe that this girl was

some exotic thing, and I’m trying to tell them that she’s Puerto

Rican, and they don’t want to hear that from me. They want to

hear that she’s from some Greek island or something. I said,

“She’s Puerto Rican!”

I left Click in 1983 and started my own company [Bethann Man-

agement] in 1984. I had white kids. I had some black and some

mixed kids. An Asian kid, two Latin kids, and Nick Kamen, a boy

who [was] famous in London. The top girl [was] a blonde, Bon-

nie Berman, who [was] one of the biggest models in the world. I

start[ed] to see how it was. I’m sitting there selling kids to clients,

but I notice the difference in money and what they would do with

dark girls or boys. You know the dark one as opposed to the white

one? I’m selling both, and I’m a person of color. You start to want

to balance out how people see others, [and say,] “Why are you

paying this person this amount of money and you’re paying this

girl that?” “Well, that’s because it’s a different market where the

product is going to be.” I would ask, “Why isn’t

Brides

magazine

ever booking any black brides? I never see black brides. We get

married.”

But I never had any attitude, because I was a teacher. I knew

that it was just something that you could explain. That’s why I

was successful, because I could say it to someone whom every-

one respected, and at the same time say it so organically [that]

it made people think. I began to say things that made people

think, because all along there was never anyone saying anything,

because what they were doing wasn’t wrong. It was just the way it

was at the time. That’s where the consciousness was being raised.

That’s where I began to get this reputation.

There seems to be a narrative about you, separate from the

trailblazer narrative, that you were the one fighting for the

rights of models of color. Is that how the Black Girls Coali-

tion began?

That’s why you can’t believe everything you read. It depends

on when it was. It doesn’t mean that I wasn’t. For instance, the

way they tell how and why the Black Girls Coalition was cre-

ated: to fight racism in the industry. Well, OK, if you want to say

that. [

Laughs

] That was the last thing we were doing. That’s not

what we did at the beginning of the Black Girls Coalition. It was

a whole bunch of black models who were already in magazines.

Those girls, the Black Girls Coalition, were already top of the

game. Yes, it’s true, I did fight for diversity, though not when I

Mid-1990s

Leaves fashion to pursue

other interests

1997

Returns to fashion at the

behest of several agents

and models and continues

to advocate for the use of

models of color in advertis-

ing and editorials and on

the runway

2008

Helps develop and edit the

groundbreaking

Vogue

Italia

“All Black” issue

2010

Named editor-at-large

of

Vogue

Italia’s digital

platform

2013

With the help of Iman and

Naomi Campbell, creates

the Diversity Coalition, an

informal organization that

develops the Balance Di-

versity initiative, which aims

to improve racial diversity

in the international fashion

industry

2014

Receives the Council

of Fashion Designers of

America (CFDA) Founder’s

Award for her decades-

long career in fashion and

tireless efforts on behalf of

models of color

2015

Appears alongside fellow

models Pat Cleveland, Kiara

Kabukuru, and Veronica

Webb in Barneys New

York’s “Better Than Ever”

ad campaign

------------

•

---------------

•

-------------------------------

•

------------------

•

-----------------

•

----------------------------------------

•

--------------------------------

•

-----------------------

24

was coming up. I wasn’t fighting, because I had a full-time job. I

was working. I was assistant to the designer, running the design

studio, or a showroom model. We weren’t fighting then. That was

the seventies. I became known as a runway model, and everyone

started to write about me, even though I still had a full-time job. I

was known for the way I walked and what I did.

By 1987 or 1988 I had an idea to start the Black Girls Coalition,

which was [created] merely to acknowledge black models. Iman

and I did a couple of good things together, so I told her this idea.

She loved it. I said I want to celebrate the girls because I didn’t

know that the black model would catch on as they had. This had

never happened before in history—so many girls of color working

and booking editorial. I wanted to show them that young women

could work together, be together, and we could help our industry.

Homelessness had hit New York City so hard in the early-to-mid

eighties during Reaganomics. I was concerned about that, so I

made homelessness our point of benefit.

Why were the eighties so good for black models?

Black models worked in the eighties and early nineties like you

couldn’t believe, because there were so many beautiful black

girls. And I mean beautiful! The publishing company Hachette

Filipacchi hired Regis Pagniez as the editorial director to bring

Elle

magazine to America. He started it, and he put black girls on

the cover. Hachette Filipacchi forced the hand of Condé Nast and

Hearst Magazines to use black models in their magazines and on

the cover.

In an incredible career, do you have any highlights?

Oh yeah! Kadeem, my son, being on

A Different World.

[

Laughs

]

It helped change America and made young black kids want to go

to college. That was a highlight. Being asked to be the matron of

honor at Iman’s wedding to David Bowie was a highlight. I started

Bethann Management in 1984 scared to death. The kids, Bonnie

Berman and Talisa Soto, pushed me to do it. I never wanted to

have a model agency. I thought I could get out in three years. At

[year] thirteen I said, “I’m done.” It’s never been my cup of tea,

but I did well at it. Having Tyson Beckford come into my office,

and a year later Ralph Lauren completely commit to him with a

five-year deal. The actual deal itself was phenomenal, [then] the

second deal to add three more years. That was a highlight—to be

able to create that historic moment.

I never thought of this as a highlight, but I do believe starting the

diversity discussion in 2007 was one, because it changed things

immediately. That was something to see. Naomi was bugging

me for two years, “Mom, you’ve got to do something! You’ve got

to do something.” The other highlight that I didn’t realize was

[one] was being the editor-at-large at

Vogue

Italia. That was just

me saying, “Of course I’ll help. Of course I’ll do it,” because I’m

thinking [the magazine is] going to help with the revolution. We

started it, and you know, you just put in the work. Franca Sozzani,

then the editor of

Vogue

Italia, needed help. We needed someone

to help us with the revolution! [

Laughs

] Now I look back and say,

“Wow! A chance to express yourself. It’s constant creativity.”

Hardison with Peter Brown, photographed by Hugh Bell,

Essence,

October 1974

SUP

THE

REMES

IMAN

ABDULMAJID

Clients:

Chanel, Donna Karan, Escada, Valentino, Yves Saint Laurent

Magazines:

American

Vogue,

British

Vogue, Essence,

Vogue

Italia,

Vogue

Paris

Somalia

|

1975–Present

A myth was created to bring iconic model Zara Mohamed Abdulmajid, known across the globe as Iman, to the United States. In 1975,

photographer Peter Beard spotted Iman, then a political science student at the University of Nairobi, on her way to campus. However,

discovering Iman proved difficult. Iman only allowed Peter to photograph her in exchange for the cost of her tuition. A year later, Peter

convinced Iman to come to the United States to model, and a legend was born. During a press conference, Peter claimed he found Iman

in the African jungle. There’s even a story she was herding goats. The two went as far as pretending that Iman did not speak English, when

in fact the beauty from Mogadishu is fluent in five languages. A top model from her first booking, shooting for American

Vogue,

Iman

worked with Richard Avedon, Arthur Elgort, and Francesco Scavullo during her first week in New York. She has been the definition of the

term “supermodel” for more than forty years. A muse to designers Halston, Donna Karan, and Yves Saint Laurent, Iman has appeared on

the cover of every major fashion magazine, like American

Vogue, Cosmopolitan, Essence, Vanity Fair,

and

W Magazine.

Photographed by Buckmaster,

Essence,

January 1988

31

“I’ll be truly happy

when we’re not

counting the number

of ethnically diverse

models on a fashion

runway or campaign,

when having a

representation of the

entire human race

is the norm and not

an exception.”

—Iman, American

Vogue

Abdulmajid with Imaan Hammam, photographed by Patrick Demarchelier,

Vogue

Arabia, March 2018

ADWOA

ABOAH

Clients:

Burberry, Chanel, Giorgio Armani, Miu Miu, Versace

Magazines:

American

Vogue,

British

Vogue,

Love

,

Vogue

Italia,

Vogue

Paris

United Kingdom

|

2009–Present

Photographed by Sebastian Kim,

Vogue

Germany, February 2012

ADUT

AKECH

Clients:

Alexander McQueen, Chanel, Dior, Givenchy, Saint Laurent

Magazines:

American

Vogue,

Vogue

Australia,

Vogue

Italia,

Vogue

Korea,

Vogue

Paris

A set of digital photographs is all it took for Adut Akech to capture one of the most sought-after spots in fashion: a Spring/Summer 2017

Saint Laurent runway exclusive. Often compared to fellow superstar Alek Wek, she has more in common with Wek than their Sudanese

heritage. In a historic moment at the Fall 2018 Chanel haute couture show, Adut became only the second black model to close the show.

The first was Alek, who had the honor in 2004.

Photographed by Johnny Dufort,

T: The New York Times Style Magazine,

July 2018

Sudan

|

2016–Present

Clients:

Azzedine Alaïa, Chanel, Ralph Lauren, Tiffany & Co., Valentino

Magazines:

American

Vogue, Elle

US

, Sports Illustrated

Swimsuit Issue,

Vogue

Italia,

Vogue

Paris

United States

|

1982–Present

KAREN

ALEXANDER

After starting her career in the eighties, New Jersey–born Karen Alexander became one of the top models of the nineties. Karen is one of

a select few models of any race to book beauty campaigns with multiple brands, including Avon, Chanel, CoverGirl, L’Oréal, and Revlon,

across decades. Karen, who posed alongside fellow top models Linda Evangelista, Estelle Lefébure, Tatjana Patitz, Christy Turlington, and

Rachel Williams in one of fashion’s most famous photos, “the white shirt story,” shot by Peter Lindbergh for American

Vogue

in 1988, also

made back-to-back appearances in the

Sports Illustrated

Swimsuit Issue in 1988 and 1989 and then appeared on the cover of American

Vogue

in 1989. The following year she was chosen as one of

People

magazine’s “50 Most Beautiful People” in its premier issue.

Photographed by Herb Ritts, American

Vogue

, alternate shot,

May 1989

38

MARCELLAS: Where were you born, and what is your eth-

nic background?

KAREN:

I love that question. I’m African American, both my

parents are. But I love my Jersey roots. They are strong.

As a child, what did you want to be when you grew up?

I wanted to be a doctor, and all of this [modeling] was part of that

master plan to become one. I thought, “Well, how am I going to

pay for medical school?” I’m a Capricorn; I’m very practical. I was

looking through my sister’s magazines, specifically

Essence

and

Ebony. Ebony

had a special issue with black models. There was

Iman, Wanakee, Beverly Johnson, Peggy Dillard, Naomi Sims,

and B. Smith. I’m getting the chills. I get choked up thinking

about it. I’ve been blessed to be able to tell each of these women

how much they meant to me. Growing up in suburban New Jer-

sey, to look outward, to imagine that I could even do it. I didn’t

want to become a model because I didn’t think I was even cute. I

really didn’t. . . . I just knew I was tall, and I was brown like them. I

didn’t think I looked like them, but I think that somewhere within

me, seeing them sparked something in me. I didn’t have to look

like them to do that job, because they are all very different and

stunning in their own ways. I thought maybe I, too, could do that.

I aimed to be a model, make some money, and pay for medical

school. . . . [T]hese [black] women in these [fashion] magazines

captured my imagination. Not that I didn’t pay attention to the

white models. I knew who Christie Brinkley was and I knew who

Cheryl Tiegs was, absolutely, and I love and respect them. But

for me, seeing [black] models was like a light bulb. “Oh, there’s

another way to do this thing! I can still have a serious career as a

doctor or be a professional. But wouldn’t this be a fun way to get

there!”

Absolutely! And so many models start as coeds.

When I read that Beverly Johnson went to Northeastern Univer-

sity, it was like, “Oh, you can be smart AND you can model.” I read

about Iman, who probably had a PhD at the age of twelve because

she’s so brilliant. I was like, “Oh, you can still complete your edu-

cation, and here she is on the cover.” Where else was I ever going

to get that kind of inspiration? Who else could have planted that

but these models? It’s magical and crazy because no one else was

talking about maybe going to school and being in fashion.

How did you get discovered, and what was your first agency?

I signed very briefly with an agency called Foster-Fell, run by Jer-

emy Foster-Fell. I was there for a hot minute. Then someone said

to me, “Maybe you should try Click?” Click said no. Even though

Bethann is my dear friend and I consider her my fashion mom

and my mentor, I wasn’t Click enough when you think about who

they represented. Then Ford said, “You’re too this and too that . . .”

Then someone said, “Maybe you should try Elite?” Elite said

A Conversation with Karen

Photographed by Ke Ogata,

Essence,

April 1989

39

no, but when I met with them, Oscar, who worked there for one

hundred years, said, “Maybe you should try this agency called

Legends?” “Legends, what is that?” I asked. I went over there,

and that’s where Gay Mitchell said yes. She was like, “I think you

could do it.” That was the beginning.

Did you start working at Legends right away?

I did little jobs here and there. Small jobs. I was a ten-year over-

night success. It was not all of a sudden I was working, and I was

on the cover of

Vogue.

It was many years until I did that. I was

shooting a half-day booking for this catalog or that one. I had a

slow, steady start, but I love that. You see some of these young

girls self-destruct. I always wondered about the girls that every-

thing happened for so instantly.

Like Naomi!

Naomi was different. It wasn’t instant necessarily, but she had a

good support system. Naomi had Azzedine [Alaïa] and Bethann.

I was fine with how my career was going. I wouldn’t change a

thing about it. What that meant for me was I could observe. I was

around a lot of the stars of the previous generation, like Iman and

Joan Severance. I could learn from them. Iman is the one that

took me aside at my first Ralph Lauren show and said, “Look, this

is what you must have in your bag. This makeup, this makeup, and

this, and this . . .” I had Bethann. Even though she wasn’t my agent,

she was my guide. I was chipping away and doing these little jobs

that enabled me to learn the ropes, to learn how to be on set and

how to be professional.

You were a member of the Black Girls Coalition.

The Black Girls Coalition [BGC] was to be many things. One of

the things that Veronica [Webb] and I, and several of us, talked

about was the gift it was to have this sisterhood of the other gen-

erations [of models], and we wanted to somehow be there for

each other. Often as a black model, you would be the only one,

though there were a lot of us to choose from; it was an incred-

ible time. But at the same time, only one of us could get the job.

If you heard that Veronica got Revlon, it was like, “Yeah! One of

us got it!” We were thrilled for each other. Part of what the BGC

wanted to do was be there for the younger generation to say, “I

know you’re on top, and I know you are getting all the covers, and

I know it’s going well. These are some of the things I’ve gleaned

over the years and wanted to share.” It was part support group,

but I don’t want to minimize it. We started doing more political

things and were asked to speak out on the lack of diversity, and

we made some inroads as far as homelessness in New York City.

We did great work, but initially, it was “God, look at us all in this

room together. Look at how far we’ve come.”

Was there one booking that changed the course of your

career?

There were two! . . . [Carlyne Cerf de Dudzeele, then the editor

at

Elle

France,] booked me to do ten pages and a cover with

[Oliviero] Toscani. That was huge for me because I had been

working in New York for a while but was not known in Europe.

That moment led to my

Elle

magazine moment, which was huge.

Regis Pagniez, then the editor-in-chief in Paris, became the

editor-in-chief of American

Elle

. That was that crazy magical

moment. Then there was the first time I worked with Peter Lind-

bergh for American

Vogue,

shooting the white shirt story. Peter

says it was the beginning of the supermodel. That moment was

magical. I worked with Peter recently on a L’Oréal ad. L’Oréal

didn’t meet me. They didn’t ask for photos of me. I was booked

strictly from my working relationship with Peter, and the fact that

we had done

Vogue

Italia. That moment was huge for me because

I had just turned fifty.

At what moment did you realize you were a successful

model?

It was being called back. My first long relationship was with

Elle

magazine. It was huge for me. It’s one thing to do one job and

that’s it. But to be featured again and again and again and again

for years by an important magazine like

Elle

was vital to me. Also,

having photographers repeatedly ask for me. Herb Ritts had this

ridiculous belief in me. Only family could believe in me the way

he did. A client would say, “We want a tall redhead who can ride

horses while she’s also skiing,” and Herb would be like, “Karen

can do it!” [

Laughs

] He just really believed in me in an insane,

voracious way. We had fun working together. When I developed

these relationships that garnered repeat business I knew I’d

made it, and it wasn’t that I was just a brown face to fill the spot.

As someone who believes in relationships, that for me was the

moment.

Do you have a favorite photographer that you’ve worked

with?

How about I give you one for every decade? Gilles Bensimon.

I’m crazy about him. I’m not here without him. He solidified my

career. Then Peter Lindbergh because he was around before I

was a mom. He did my

Vogue

cover. Then Herb Ritts would be

my thirties when I was a mom. These men were crucial parts of

my life. When you grow up in fashion, these are big moments.

A

Vogue

cover is a pretty damn big moment. Doing

Vogue

Ita-

lia, and Chanel Allure with Herb, then doing the Pirelli calendar.

Yeah, that’s a big moment.

Elle

magazine, yeah, that’s big. A lot

of my career I was pinching myself. I still can’t believe I had such

crazy magical moments.

LEOMIE

ANDERSON

Clients:

Emporio Armani, Jeremy Scott, Oscar de la Renta, Tom Ford, Victoria’s Secret

Magazines:

American

Vogue,

British

Vogue, Elle

US,

Teen Vogue, Vogue

Italia

United Kingdom

|

2010–Present

For Leomie Anderson, modeling isn’t just a job. It’s a platform to change the world. The model-activist is the founder of LAPP, a clothing

brand and online platform she created to promote social and political issues important to women and girls of all races. In 2010, Leomie

first garnered the attention of the fashion world after walking in shows for designers including Emanuel Ungaro and Loewe, but one show

stands out as the start of her current success. “My first show season walking for Marc by Marc Jacobs was a real turning point for me,”

recalls Leomie. Now an editorial star and runway veteran after walking in several Victoria’s Secret fashion shows, Leomie sees each

booking as a step forward. “I’ve had so many jobs that helped build my career, from shooting for

Vogue

Italia at seventeen to walking for

Victoria’s Secret. . . . Every job has helped me get to where I am now.”

Photographed by Paul Scala,

Wonderland,

March 2018

43

MARCELLAS: What is your ethnic background, and where

were you born?

LEOMIE:

My family is Jamaican, and I was born and raised in

South London.

What did you want to be when you grew up?

Funnily enough, I wanted to be a fashion journalist. I knew I en-

joyed storytelling and was always interested in fashion.

How are you handling living in the United States and work-

ing all over the globe while being away from your home and

family?

Traveling can get quite lonely at times; you miss your family and

friends and special moments to be able to work, but it’s made me

into a stronger person.

At what moment did you know you were a success as a

model?

I think it’s something I’m still building. I’m always setting new

goals for myself.

Who are your favorite models?

I love Jourdan Dunn and Neelam Gill, because they’re both cool

English girls who represent so much. Of course, the older genera-

tion inspires me, too, such as Beverly Johnson and Naomi, who

helped shape the industry for black models today.

What is the most significant life lesson modeling has taught

you?

Probably that persistence and humility will get you far!

A Conversation with Leomie

Photographed by Jenny Brough,

Hello!,

October 2016

GEORGIE

BADIEL

Burkina Faso

|

2004–Present

Clients:

Julien Macdonald, Louis Vuitton, Marc Jacobs, Oscar de la Renta, Paul Smith

Magazines:

Elle

US,

Harper’s Bazaar

US,

i-D,

Vogue

Italia,

Vogue

Russia

Photographed by David Roemer,

Essence,

April 2010

46

fter modeling for a few years on the

Ivory Coast, I wanted to reevaluate what I thought I could do.

That’s why I decided to do a beauty pageant. I competed in the

Miss Burkina Faso contest and won. I was Miss Burkina Faso in

2002 and 2003, and then in 2004 I went to Miss Africa, and I

won. From there I thought it would be great to have an interna-

tional modeling career. When you are in the ghetto, you are striv-

ing for the good of tomorrow, and some things come naturally.

I don’t know how I made it, but I had to get out of there! Miss

Africa was my plan.

“In 2005, I went to Paris to start my modeling career. I didn’t

understand the people, even though French was my first lan-

guage. Paris was not welcoming. All I would hear in Paris was, ‘Oh

my God, there [are] no castings for black models.’ ‘I don’t have

anything for black girls.’ I would go to castings, and clients would

say, ‘I didn’t ask for black models.’ That’s why I was confused. I

knew myself as a person. I was born and raised in the Catholic

Church and school. The nuns taught us to be loving and caring

and [that there was] no difference in our color. I got to Paris, and I

was like, ‘Who am I?’ As a teenager, it just gets to your brain, and

it was depressing. Paris was a big moment of figuring out who I

am. Now I know, but then I was confused. I am stronger from all

the experiences I had. Struggle makes you stronger.

“I stayed in Paris for three months for the couture and prêt-à-

porter seasons. After that my visa was over, so my agency sent

me back to my country. I had to call and call them, almost harass

them to let me come back to pursue my passion. After I returned,

Alber Elbaz saw me, called my agent, and said, ‘I want that girl in

my show.’ Finally, my agency recognized my potential and started

to push me.

“I came to New York in 2008, and I didn’t speak the language. All

I could say was ‘Good morning! Thank you! I love you! Bye!’ But

New York was easier for me because of the state of mind. I felt

A

47

comfortable with the people and their mentality. I felt [that this]

is a country where I can make it. I went back to Paris to see my

parents, and I told them I was moving. It didn’t take me long. I felt

loved and welcomed. There is one thing you cannot hide or fake:

energy. Energy is everything, and I felt it in New York.

“My favorite booking ever was with Peter Lindbergh. My agent

called me and was so excited: ‘Georgie, you just got booked by

Peter Lindbergh! I’m so happy for you!’ [And I said,] ‘Oh, that’s

cool. Thank you. I shall come by the agency, and you can print out

my day for me.’ I didn’t show any excitement. Nothing. Everyone

was so excited and happy, and I’m just standing there like nothing

is happening! I didn’t know who Peter was, and when I realized, I

was like, ‘Whoa, this is Peter Lindbergh and a campaign for Mos-

chino!’ It was great. I was like, ‘I’m gonna get paid!’

“Modeling is a passion, and I’ve done so much in my career. At

sixty, if someone wanted to shoot me, I would do it. Models travel

a lot. We miss time with our family and friends. While I am sit-

ting at the airport or when I’m alone at the hotel, I write about

things that I am passionate about, because as an African woman

I want to tell my stories. [My book,]

The Water Princess,

is my

story. Water is something that we take for granted. As a young

girl, I used to walk for miles with my grandmother to reach a well.

It would take us two hours, two and a half hours. The weather

was dry. The sun was beating on our skin. That’s what

The Water

Princess

is about—the importance of water. I wrote this book

to teach people about the struggles of children in impoverished

countries, and because I wanted to provide access to clean water

for my grandmother’s village. That is how the Georgie Badiel

Foundation was born. I had to find another way to provide clean

water to the people of my village and communities like my grand-

mother’s.”

—Georgie Badiel, as told to Marcellas Reynolds

Photographed by Laurie Bartley,

Elle

US, September 2010

CYNTHIA

BAILEY

United States

|

1987–Present

Clients:

Betsey Johnson, Isaac Mizrahi, Maybelline, Patrick Kelly, Tracy Reese

Magazines:

Elle

US,

Essence, Glamour, Interview, Vanity Fair

Photographed by Guy Aroch,

Essence,

August 2002

TYRA

BANKS

Clients:

CoverGirl, Isaac Mizrahi, Todd Oldham, Versace, Victoria’s Secret

Magazines:

American

Vogue,

British

Vogue, Elle

US,

Sports Illustrated

Swimsuit Issue,

Vogue

Italia

United States

|

1990–Present

Supermodel. Talk show host. Producer. Emmy winner. Tyra Banks is one of the most successful models ever. She is also one of the few

models able to transition from model to multimedia force, creating not just one but two hit television shows:

America’s Next Top Model

and

The Tyra Banks Show.

Tyra has had a dazzling career of firsts. In her first season modeling in Paris, she booked an incredible twenty-

five fashion shows. A prolific cover girl, Tyra was the first African American model to appear on the covers of both the

Sports Illustrated

Swimsuit Issue and the Victoria’s Secret catalog.

Photographed by Russell James,

Sports Illustrated,

Winter 1997

52

1991

Books twenty-five runway

shows during her first

season in Paris

1992

Appears in a May American

Vogue

editorial with Beverly

Peele and Naomi Campbell

Featured on the covers of

August

Harper’s Bazaar

Germany and October

Elle

España

1994

Featured on the December

cover of

Elle

US

1995

Signs a multiyear contract

with CoverGirl cosmetics

1996

Featured on the cover of

the

Sports Illustrated

Swim-

suit Issue alongside model

Valeria Mazza, becoming

the first black model to

do so

Featured on the February

cover of

GQ

magazine solo,

the first black female model

to do so

Walks in her first Victoria’s

Secret fashion show

1997

Makes history as the first

black model to appear solo

on the cover of the

Sports

Illustrated

Swimsuit Issue

Tyra Banks:

Career Timeline

•

-----------------

•

------------------------------------

•

--------------

•

-------------

•

----------------------------------------------------------

•

--------------------------------------------

Photographed by Gilles Bensimon,

Elle

España, October 1992

53

Becomes a Victoria’s

Secret Angel and is the

first African American to

appear on the cover of the

Victoria’s Secret catalog

2003

Creates, executive

produces, and hosts the

television show

America’s

Next Top Model

2005

Walks in her final Victoria’s

Secret fashion show

Creates and hosts

The Tyra

Banks Show

2008

Wins Daytime Emmy

Award for

The Tyra Banks

Show

Appears in the

Vogue

Italia

“All Black” issue

Appears in the

Sports Illus-

trated

Swimsuit Issue “Hall

of Fame” editorial

2011

Appears in July

Vanity Fair

magazine’s “Women in

Black” editorial

2014

Appears in a March

W Magazine

editorial

Appears in the

Sports

Illustrated

Swimsuit Issue

“Legends” editorial

2016

Featured on the Fall/

Winter cover of

Harper’s

Bazaar

India

----------------------------------

•

---------------------

•

-------------------------

•

-------------------------------------------

•

------------------

•

-----------------------------

•

-----------

Photographed by Alexi Lubomirski,

Harper’s Bazaar

US, September 2008

SHARI

BELAFONTE

Clients:

Benetton, Calvin Klein, Macy’s, Max Factor

Magazines:

American

Vogue, Harper’s Bazaar

US,

Mademoiselle, Self, Vanity Fair

United States

|

1980s

Photographed by Richard Avedon, American

Vogue,

June 1986

GRACE

BOL

Clients:

Balmain, Hermès, Lanvin, Tom Ford, Victoria’s Secret

Magazines:

American

Vogue, Harper’s Bazaar

US,

Vogue

Australia,

Vogue

Paris,

W Magazine

Sudan

|

2011–Present

Photographed by Kuba Ryniewicz,

Vogue

Poland, April 2018

MARIA

BORGES

Clients:

Givenchy, L’Oréal, Tom Ford, Victoria’s Secret, Zimmermann

Magazines:

American

Vogue,

British V

ogue, Elle

US,

Numéro, Vogue

Italia

Angola

|

2011–Present

Although it was placing second in Angola’s Elite Model Look contest that started Maria Borges’s career, there are two firsts that define it.

In the 2015 Victoria’s Secret fashion show, Maria made history as the first model of color to wear her natural afro. Two years later, in May

2017, Maria became only the second African woman to appear on the cover of

Elle

US, twenty years after the first—model Alek Wek.

Photographed by Greg Kadel,

Vogue

España, March 2016

KERSTI

BOWSER

Clients:

Chanel, Dior, Giorgio Armani, Jean Paul Gaultier, Revlon

Magazines:

American

Vogue, Elle

US,

Essence,

Harper’s Bazaar

US,

Seventeen

Sweden and the United States

|

1980–Present

For many young women of color growing up in the eighties, Kersti Bowser exemplified the all-American girl-next-door ideal. Kersti was

discovered during her freshman year of high school, and her ascent to stardom was meteoric. “I grew up as a model,” she says. Though

her initial success was in the pages of

Seventeen,

Kersti soon graduated to the covers of fashion’s most prominent magazines. “Out of the

gate, I was a working model because of

Seventeen.

But I really hit my stride with

Elle

magazine. When that cover came out, that was when

I entered another realm with

Mademoiselle

and

Vogue.

”

The friendliness and warmth that radiate from Kersti’s photos resonate not only with fans but also with other models. “There’s an instant

sense of family when you see some of these friends that you worked with years ago because the modeling industry was like our college

campus. Many of us weren’t going to college and didn’t have sororities, but sets and these incredible cities, those were our school

campuses. We all grew up together, and there was a sisterhood. Tyra and I are still in touch. Gail O’Neill and Sheila Johnson—I’m still

friends with both of them.”

Photographed by Gilles Bensimon,

Elle

US, July 1986

Photographed by Richard Avedon,

Mademoiselle,

February 1988

63

MARCELLAS: What is your ethnic background?

KERSTI:

My mother is Swedish, and my dad is African Ameri-

can. I grew up with a single mom, who raised me in both Sweden

and the US. I’m bilingual and have both backgrounds. I met my

dad for the first time when I was twenty-seven. When I found my

dad, he had been collecting pictures of me, thinking this might be

his daughter because I shared his last name and looked a bit like

him. We are now wonderful friends.

On your gorgeous

Elle

magazine cover, the magazine

changed your eyes from brown to blue. Did you grow up feel-

ing black, white, or completely different?

My mother raised me in such a neutral way that I never saw color

when I walked into a room. I never knew what that was about

except for when fingers were pointed at me because I had kinky

hair and brown eyes. I was either too fair or not fair enough. That

would happen whether I was in Sweden, because at the time

growing up in Sweden I was the only brown-eyed person for

miles and miles, [or] in Queens [because I was] fair-skinned with

kinky hair, and my mother was blond. People would point at us. I

had it from both sides, and I never understood why, because I just

wasn’t raised to see a difference in people.

Definitely, there were moments where the difference of me was

very evident. As a model, sometimes I was not enough in one

direction, and sometimes not enough in the other. Sometimes

it was the perfect combination, because I could hit the masses

more. I’m sure there was some thought behind hiring me from the

editors, “Perfect! She’ll blend right in.”

How did you get discovered?

I was on my way to school. I was in ninth grade, and I was dis-

covered on a subway by the editor of

Seventeen

magazine. They

hand-held me throughout the whole process. I was in the mag-

azine before I even had an agent. Then they walked me over to

Ford agency, and that was it. Modeling wasn’t one of my goals.

Once I got into it, I was like, “Wow, this is really cool.” It opened

up my world. . . . I still don’t think I realized the impact that I

had as a young woman on the world. We didn’t have the Internet

then, so magazines and television or on the runway was the

way that people saw us. I don’t think I realized the impact that

it would have globally. Whoever has their image out there does

have some effect.

Who were your contemporaries?

I hit my stride at three different points during my career.

During my

Seventeen

magazine period, Whitney Houston and I

were friends. . . . She was just this incredible young woman, and

we knew she had something more to give than just modeling.

[Then] I started doing

Elle.

Iman took me under her wing. Bev-

erly Johnson did, too. Gail O’Neill and Sheila Johnson . . . When

Naomi came from London, we were at a studio, and she said, “Oh

my God, it’s you, Kersti.” I said, “Yeah, hi!” Naomi said, “Oh my

God, I love your work.” I said, “Thank you.” She said, “I’ve just

come in from London, and I don’t know my way around.” I said,

“Here’s a map, and let me tell you where to go.” Ever since then,

whenever Naomi and I see each other, it’s kismet. There’s a lovely

side to Naomi. A beautiful side to her.

Did you feel like there was enough work for everyone?

When Naomi came on the scene, she was able to tear [it] open and

create more work. From the inside, it just erupted. We were all

busy due to the trickle-down effect—we were sprinkled around,

and it was kind of rare to have all of us black girls in one place.

I would love to see all the girls in one shot now.

What was your best booking ever?

Going on a trip with Cindy Crawford and a few other girls [to]

shoot a gorgeous catalog for Bloomingdale’s. We were in Thai-

land and Singapore, all over. That was an incredible booking

because I learned a lot from Cindy. She took such good care of

herself, and she handled herself like a businesswoman. I learned

from her how to be more aware of yourself as a businessperson,

as a model. You are a business. You can incorporate yourself. I

have the utmost respect for her. She was a wise young woman

who developed into being an icon of our time.

What is the most significant life lesson modeling taught you?

Modeling taught me self-sufficiency. You learn how to take care

of yourself. Generally, you start your career young. You learn to

deal with people. You learn how to travel and navigate through

cities and foreign countries. Hopefully, you learn to handle

money. Economics. Modeling teaches you a lot. When I used to

see my pictures in magazines or on TV, I was a little shy about it.

Modeling wasn’t my goal. I wasn’t running to the agencies bang-

ing down the doors to become a model. Success was a surprise

and a gift. I was glad they wanted me. It was a cool thing.

A Conversation with Kersti

Clients:

Balmain, Jil Sander, Maison Margiela, Paul Smith, Prada

Magazines:

American

Vogue, Vogue

Italia,

Vogue

Japan,

Vogue

Netherlands,

Vogue

Paris

Dominican Republic

|

2012–Present

Dominican stunner Ysaunny Brito planned to follow in the footsteps of her brother by joining the military, but it was another family

member who first saw her potential as a model. “My cousin took me to the Elite Model Look 2012 casting. I ended up winning the

contest in my country, which led me to the Elite Model Look World Final in Shanghai, where I placed in the top fifteen,” Ysaunny recalls.

Her success in the Elite contests took Ysaunny to Paris, where almost immediately she scored a television commercial for Dior Beauty.

Bookings for Kenzo and Louis Vuitton soon followed. “Every single one of my jobs is a game changer for me. I appreciate all of them,” she

says. When pressed to pick a favorite, it’s shooting the Balmain campaign with designer Olivier Rousteing that holds a special place in

her heart. “Olivier is my favorite designer. I really appreciate the way he has supported me. He even took me to the Met Gala with the

Balmain team. It was an amazing experience! We spent the afternoon together getting ready at his hotel room, singing and dancing in the

car on the way there and all the way to the red carpet.”

Photographed by Greg Kadel,

Vogue

España, March 2016

YSAUNNY

BRITO

NAOMI

CAMPBELL

Clients:

Azzedine Alaïa, Chanel, Tom Ford, Versace, Yves Saint Laurent

Magazines:

American

Vogue,

British

Vogue, Vogue

Italia,

Vogue

Paris,

W Magazine

United Kingdom

|

1986–Present

With ten

Vogue

Italia covers, eight British

Vogue

covers, seven American

Vogue

covers, six

Vogue

Paris covers, and counting, supermodel

Naomi Campbell is the top black model of all time. Naomi’s lightning-fast ascent to fashion superstardom is the stuff of legend. In 1986

Beth Boldt discovered fifteen-year-old Naomi, a dance student at London’s prestigious Italia Conti Academy, hanging out with friends

in London’s Covent Garden. Before her sixteenth birthday, Naomi scored bookings with

Elle

UK and the coveted cover of British

Vogue,

beginning a modeling career that has lasted more than three decades.

Photographed by Sebastian Kim,

Numéro

Russia, March 2013

69

Photographed by Patrick Demarchelier,

Vogue

Paris, April 1991

“I didn’t work

twenty-eight years

for it to be a trend.

That’s one of the

things that keeps me

wanting to work,

because I feel I can’t

duck out yet;

I feel I still have to

represent and watch

my babies, and

be there for them.”

—Naomi Campbell, SHOWstudio

70

Above:

Photographed by Herb Ritts,

Interview,

December 1991.

Opposite:

Photographed by Steven Meisel,

Vogue

Italia, January 1992

1987

The first black British

woman to appear on the

cover of British

Vogue

1988

The first black woman on

the cover of

Vogue

Paris

1989

The first black woman on

the cover of American

Vogue

’s September issue

1991

The first black model on

the cover of

Time

magazine

1994

The first black woman to

star in a Prada advertising

campaign

1997

The first black model to

open a Prada fashion show

Naomi Campbell:

A Timeline of Firsts

•

-----------------

•

--------------

•

-----------------

•

--------------

•

-----------------

•

----------

Campbell with Christy Turlington, photographed by Max Vadukul,

Vogue

Paris, March 1992

73

I

can imagine how young African American women must

have felt when Beverly Johnson landed her first cover of

Vogue

in 1974. It’s important to see yourself in the culture, but it’s also

important for us all to see diverse representations of beauty in it.

All-American beauties such as Kim Alexis, Kelly Emberg, and

Christie Brinkley pretty much dominated the covers of

Vogue,

Glamour,

and

Mademoiselle

in my youth. As the daughter of a

Salvadoran mother, I didn’t see myself in any of them, so I was

happy when Talisa Soto, Linda Spierings, and Yasmin Parvaneh

arrived on the scene in the mid-eighties.

I remember seeing more diversity in early fashion shows in

New York City when I started my career. Dalma Callado,

Anna Bayle, and Iman were legendary on the runways at that

time. I can remember the first time I followed Iman for Calvin

Klein. There was nothing like watching Iman on a runway and

nothing like being stuck behind her, either. I would make approx-

imately three turns for each of her single, slow-motion, Norman

Parkinson–esque poses before she would pivot dramatically at

the end to return. The sheer panic of being just a girl between this

woman and her destination. There was absolutely nothing like it!

Not until Naomi came along, that is . . .

I first met Naomi Campbell in London in 1986. We were booked

together, along with Stephanie Seymour. Naomi was just sixteen,

and Stephanie and I were both seasoned seventeen-year-olds.

There was chemistry from the start. We danced and sang

ourselves silly for three days to Wham!, and a lifelong friendship

was born.

It did not take long for Naomi to get herself over to NYC. She

was immediately working with all the greats of our time but had a

special bond with Steven Meisel and Herb Ritts. When we lived

together briefly in my first apartment on Grand Street, we barely

saw one another because we were traveling as often as flight

attendants at the time. One of us still is!

We were paired so often throughout our careers that we felt like

actual sisters at times. Whether on runways or covers, in cam-

paigns, in editorials, we are linked forever in fashion history.

Azzedine Alaïa, Rifat Özbek, YSL, and Versace, Versace, Versace . . .

There is no one like her. It was as if she was born to be the star

that she is today. She is the queen of reinvention and continues

to ignite runways, screens, and global stages. Naomi stands up for

people and causes she believes in with her whole Gemini heart.

She is relentless with her passions and loyal to a fault.

Christy Turlington Burns

on diversity, inclusion, and Naomi

PAT

CLEVELAND

Clients:

Halston, Stephen Burrows, Valentino, Yves Saint Laurent, Zac Posen

Magazines:

American

Vogue, CR Fashion Book, V Magazine, Vogue

Italia,

Vogue

Japan

United States

|

1964–Present

Photographed by Ron Galella, unpublished, August 1977

77

“I just wanted to be

photographed no matter

what color I was. . . .

While blacks were often

denied opportunities

because of their skin color

—

and believe me, I lost plenty

of jobs because I didn’t

have the conventional all-

American looks that higher-

ups at fashion magazines

considered pretty

—

I also

got passed over for jobs that

went to models who were

a deeper shade of brown.”

—Pat Cleveland,

Walking with the Muses

Photographed by Olivia Malone,

L’Officiel US, July 2018

Clients:

3.1 Phillip Lim, Jil Sander, Marc Jacobs, Prada, Rodarte

Magazines:

Harper’s Bazaar

US,

Teen Vogue, V Magazine, Vogue

Italia,

Vogue

Paris

Dominican Republic

|

2009–Present

There must be something in the water in the Dominican Republic that produces so many stunning models. Rose Cordero hit the runways

in 2009, making her debut at Burberry in Milan. Since then, Rose has had a most stellar career, proving she’s a fashionable double threat.

She’s appeared in runway shows for Marc Jacobs, Max Mara, Zac Posen, and Louis Vuitton and in editorials in every major fashion tome.

Her stunning March 2010

Vogue

Paris cover was the first to feature a black woman alone since Liya Kebede’s in May 2002.

Photographed by John-Paul Pietrus,

Arise,

Spring 2011

ROSE

CORDERO

80

MARCELLAS: How did you get discovered?

ROSE:

I started modeling in the Dominican Republic. I was a vol-

leyball player, and I was discovered after practice by Sandro Guzman,

[who was the] president of Ossygeno Model Management in Santo

Domingo.

What was your first paid booking?

Honestly, I don’t remember, but my first job in New York was for

Teen

Vogue

. My first agency in New York was Wilhelmina for a little bit,

and then Supreme.

At what moment did you know you were a successful model?

When I did the cover of

Vogue

Paris I started to recognize that I was a

very successful model. I began to believe more in my talent and what

I was doing.

Looking forward, what do you want to do next or in addition to

modeling?

I always wanted to be a doctor. I’m thinking about [going to] univer-

sity and studying medicine. I love it!

What is the most significant life lesson modeling has taught you?

Modeling has taught me a lot. I came to New York at fourteen by

myself, without my family, unable to speak English. Modeling taught

me to be an independent woman at a young age. I learned to be strong,

no matter the situation. To be strong and focused was my only choice

to be successful in modeling. I’m reminded how humble my family is

in the Dominican Republic and that I want to give them a better life.

Photographed by John-Paul Pietrus,

Arise,

Spring 2011

A Conversation with Rose

AJAK

DENG

Clients:

Ann Demeulemeester, Balenciaga, Givenchy, Louis Vuitton, The Row

Magazines:

American

Vogue, Elle

US,

Love

,

Vogue

Italia,

W Magazine

Australia

|

2008–Present

Photographed by Justin Ridler,

Miss Vogue

Australia, August 2016

PEGGY

DILLARD

Clients:

Issey Miyake, Oscar de la Renta, Sonia Rykiel, Stephen Burrows, Versace

Magazines:

American

Vogue, Cosmopolitan, Essence, Harper’s Bazaar

US,

Mademoiselle

United States

|

1976–Present

When your first paid booking is walking the runway for designer Scott Barrie, who then books you for his lookbook shot by legendary

seventies photographer Deborah Turbeville, model stardom is almost guaranteed. For runway model and editorial superstar Peggy Dillard,

who started modeling while a junior at Pratt Institute in Brooklyn, New York, that auspicious start began one of fashion’s most successful

careers. In August 1977, Peggy became the second black model to appear on the coveted cover of American

Vogue.

She repeated that

feat two more times, in August 1978 and January 1979. Covers of

Essence

and

Mademoiselle

magazines soon followed. Though best

remembered for her

Vogue

covers with Albert Watson, the great Francesco Scavullo is Peggy’s favorite photographer. “I loved working with

Scavullo. He knew how to make you feel special and treat you like a star. He seemed to love the fact that I was a little different. Shooting

my

Cosmopolitan

cover with him was an extraordinary day.”

Photographed by Albert Watson, American

Vogue,

August 1978

JANIECE

ALTAGRACIA

DILONE

Clients:

Balmain, Hermès, Jacquemus, Louis Vuitton, Off-White

Magazines:

Allure,

American

Vogue, Harper’s Bazaar

US,

Vogue

Italia,

Vogue

Mexico

United States

|

2015–Present

The term “Model of the Moment” is bandied about often in fashion. For Long Island–born model Dilone (née Janiece Altagracia Dilone),

it’s a description we’ve been hearing since she signed with DNA Models in 2015. Dilone’s debut season began with a campaign for Marc

Jacobs and walking in more than forty runway shows. Since then Dilone has starred in campaigns for Versace with supermodels Gigi

Hadid and Karlie Kloss, as well as campaigns for Balmain, Fendi, and Moschino.

Photographed by Julia Noni,

Harper’s Bazaar

US, February 2017

89

MARCELLAS: What did you want to be when you grew up?

DILONE:

I wanted to be a writer, singer, and actress!

Do you remember your first paid booking?

[I don’t know] if I can remember that, but I do remember my first

big-paying booking was from Opening Ceremony.

At what moment did you realize you were a successful

model?

When my parents acknowledged that my pursuits weren’t for

nothing and that there is good money to be made in this career.

Who is your favorite photographer that you’ve worked with

so far?

Cass Bird. We’ve worked on a few projects together. Some of my

favorite shoots with her were for

Chaos 69

and

Porter

magazines,

and Dior makeup. It never feels like work with her. She brings

such great energy and fun direction. She’s very special to me.

Was there a trip, fashion shoot, or runway show that ranks

as your favorite?

Shooting with Azzedine Alaïa and Carlyne Cerf de Dudzeele was

so much fun. It was a dream dancing in his garments and spend-

ing a few days in his home.

What is the most significant life lesson modeling has taught

you?

People come from all different walks of life, different backgrounds

and upbringings, but no matter where we are from, we all share

similar fears and insecurities. We just want to love and be loved.

A Conversation with Dilone

Dilone with Imaan Hammam and Aamito Lagum, photographed by Patrick Demarchelier,

Allure,

April 2017

Clients:

Alexander McQueen, Burberry, Maybelline, Prada, Versace

Magazines:

American

Vogue,

British

Vogue, Teen Vogue, Vogue

Italia,

Vogue

Paris

United Kingdom

|

2006–Present

Brit star Jourdan Dunn has more in common with supermodel Naomi Campbell than shared heritage. In 2008, Jourdan became the first

black model to walk in a Prada runway show since Naomi first did in 1993. Further following in Naomi’s storied heels, in 2015 Jourdan

became only the third black model to secure a solo cover of British

Vogue;

Naomi graced the magazine twelve years earlier, becoming the

second model to do so after the first, Donyale Luna, in 1966. Emerging as one of the top models in the world since her debut in 2007,

Jourdan has also used her “super” status to speak out about racism in the fashion industry, becoming an advocate for women and young

girls along the way.

Photographed by Inez and Vinoodh,

W Magazine,

October 2015

JOURDAN

DUNN

92

2007

Debuts at the Spring/

Summer 2008 Marc Jacobs

runway show in New York

2008

Featured on the covers of the

Vogue

Italia “All Black” issue,

September

i-D

magazine,

November British

Vogue

,

and December

Elle

France

2009

Featured on the covers of

May American

Vogue

and

September

i-D

magazine,

alongside models Chanel

Iman, Sessilee Lopez, and

Arlenis Sosa

Appears in September

editorials for American

Vogue

and

Vogue

Italia

2010

Appears in two September

American

Vogue

editorials,

photographed by Peter

Lindbergh and Steven Meisel

Closes the Spring/Summer

2011 Lanvin runway show in

Paris, with fellow models Ajak

Deng, Ataui Deng, Melodie

Monrose, and Jeneil Williams

2011

Becomes the face of

Burberry, appearing in the

Spring/Summer 2011

advertising campaign

Signs a cosmetics contract

with Yves Saint Laurent

Jourdan Dunn:

A Ten-Year

Timeline

•

-----------------

•

-------------------------

•

-------------------------------------------

•

--------------------------------------------

•

---------------------------------------------------------

--

Dunn with Chanel Iman, Sessilee Lopez, and Arlenis Sosa, photographed by Emma Summerton,

i-D,

September 2009

93

Photographed by Emma Summerton,

i-D,

September 2012

Beauty, appearing in the

Fall/Winter 2011 advertising

campaign

2012

Appears in editorials for

March and May American

Vogue,

June

Vogue

Italia, and

September British

Vogue

2013

Appears in editorials for

February American and

British

Vogue

Featured on the August cover

of

i-D

magazine

2014

Signs a cosmetics contract

with Maybelline New York

Featured on the September

cover of

Vogue

Italia

2015

Appears in the Spring May-

belline New York advertising

campaign

Featured on the February

cover of British

Vogue

2016

Featured on the covers of

January

Vogue

Japan, Febru-

ary

Vogue

Brazil, and June

Elle

South Africa

Re-signs cosmetics contract

with Maybelline New York

2017

Featured on the covers of

April

Glamour

UK and July

Vogue

Arabia

-------------------------------

•

----------------------

•

----------------------------

•

-------------------------

•

----------------------------

•

---------------------------------

•

-----------

Clients:

3.1 Phillip Lim, Alexander Wang, Carolina Herrera, Chanel, Helmut Lang

Magazines:

American

Vogue,

British

Vogue, Elle

US,

Harper’s Bazaar

UK,

V Magazine

Photographed by Matt Irwin,

Vogue

Russia, March 2013

CORA

EMMANUEL

France

|

2010–Present

AMILNA

ESTEVÃO

Clients:

3.1 Phillip Lim, Alexander Wang, Balenciaga, Lanvin, Maison Martin Margiela

Magazines:

Elle

US,

i-D, Vogue

Brazil,

Vogue

Paris,

W Magazine

Angola

|

2013–Present

Photographed by Txema Yeste,

Numéro

France

,

December 2015/January 2016

MALAIKA

FIRTH

Clients:

Burberry Prorsum, Emilio Pucci, Jason Wu, Maison Martin Margiela, Prada

Magazines:

American

Vogue,

British

Vogue, Vogue

Italia,

Vogue

Paris,

Vogue

Russia

Kenya and the United Kingdom

|

2013–Present

In 1994, the year Malaika Firth was born, Naomi Campbell became the first black model to star in a Prada advertising campaign.

In fall 2013, almost twenty years later, Malaika became the second.

Photographed by Emma Summerton,

Vogue

Japan, July 2014

QUIANA

GRANT

Clients:

Fendi, Gucci, Maybelline, Oscar de la Renta, Yves Saint Laurent

Magazines:

Allure, Harper’s Bazaar

US,

Sports Illustrated

Swimsuit Issue,

Teen Vogue, Vogue

Italia

United States

|

1998–Present

At thirteen, Virginia native Quiana Grant accompanied her cousin to a model search in Washington, DC. There Quiana caught the eye

of a model scout who took her to several New York agencies, where she eventually signed with Wilhelmina. By sixteen, Quiana had scored

a Gap campaign shot by Steven Meisel and an editorial in

Harper’s Bazaar.

Later that same year, she was in Paris seriously pursuing her

career. “Paris was a totally different ball game,” Quiana says. “My booker put fashion magazines in my hands and said, ‘I want you to know

every photographer, fashion stylist, makeup artist, and hairstylist in these. You also need to know the models.’ I sat there for five hours going

through the magazines, learning who was in my industry, which I needed to know. At that point, I realized, this is serious. It’s not just you take

a picture, and it’s everywhere, and everyone is giving you props because you’re in

Vogue.

Fashion is a business.” With career highlights that

include editorials for

Allure

and European editions of both

Glamour

and

Vogue,

as well as appearing in the 2008

Sports Illustrated

Swimsuit

Issue, it’s signing a multiyear contract as the face of Maybelline in 2003 that stands as Quiana’s crowning achievement.

Photographed by Chris Nicholls,

Flare,

September 2008

IMAAN

HAMMAM

Clients:

Chanel, Edun, Fendi, Givenchy, Isabel Marant, Proenza Schouler

Magazines:

American

Vogue, Numéro, Teen Vogue, Vogue

Italia,

Vogue

Paris

The Netherlands

|

2010–Present

Fashion happens at lightning speed, and few modeling careers exemplify that like Imaan Hammam’s. Born in Amsterdam to an Egyptian

father and a Moroccan mother, Imaan was discovered by an agent with Code Management. The year 2013 proved to be a breakout

year for Imaan when, just after arriving in Paris, she booked one of the most sought-after spots in fashion: a Givenchy runway exclusive.

That led to über-photographer Steven Meisel shooting her for the December

Vogue

Italia, followed by two editorials in the January 2014

American

Vogue

. A new fashion star was born.

Photographed by Giampaolo Sgura,

Vogue

Japan, May 2017

104

2013

Books a Givenchy exclusive,

opening the Spring/

Summer 2014 runway show

Appears in a December

Vogue

Italia editorial, photo-

graphed by Steven Meisel

2014

Appears in two January

American

Vogue

editorials,

shot by Mikael Jansson and

Craig McDean

Walks in the Fall/

Winter Balenciaga, Roberto

Cavalli, and Versace runway

shows

Walks in the Victoria’s

Secret fashion show

2015

Appears in the Spring/

Summer Givenchy adver-

tising campaign

Featured on the covers of

August

Teen Vogue

and

September

Vogue

Neth-

erlands

Imaan Hamman:

Model of the Moment Timeline

•

--------------------------------

•

---------------------------------------------------

•

-----------------------------------------------------------

Photographed by Patrick Demarchelier,

Vogue

Arabia, March 2018

105

2016

Appears in three January

American

Vogue

editorials,

shot by Patrick Demarche-

lier, Jamie Hawkesworth,

and Mikael Jansson

2017

Featured on the cover of

February British

Vogue,

photographed by Patrick

Demarchelier

Featured on the March cov-

ers of American

Vogue

and

Vogue

China

2018

Appears in the Revlon

#LiveBoldly advertising

campaign

Featured on the March

Vogue

Arabia cover along-

side fellow model Iman

Featured on the October

Vogue

Paris cover, shot by

Mikael Jansson

Appears in an American

Vogue

editorial alongside

A$AP Rocky

2019

Walks in the Fall/Winter

2019 Versace men’s runway

show

Stars in the Chanel Beauty

Spring/Summer advertising

campaign

Featured on the March

Vogue

Japan cover, photo-

graphed by Luigi & Iango

------------------

•

-------------------------

•

------------------------------------

•

--------------------------------------------------------------

•

-----------------------------------------

“I want to be a role

model for young girls

who are struggling with

racism or struggling

with their looks or

with their skin color. . . .

[T]here aren’t many

Arabic models, and

being an African

-

Arabic model, I’m trying

to open doors for

more Arabic

girls.”

—Imaan Hammam,

Allure

THERESA

HAYES

Clients:

Alberta Ferretti, Alexandre Vauthier, Louis Vuitton, Narcisco Rodriguez, Valentino

Magazines:

Harper’s Bazaa

r US,

Numéro, Vogue

Germany,

Vogue

Italia,

W Magazine

United States

|

2016–Present

“If you want something, you have to go out there and work hard. Believe in you,” says Brooklyn-born Theresa Hayes. Perhaps it’s that

can-do attitude that landed Theresa one of fashion’s most prestigious slots, twice: a Spring/Summer and Fall/Winter 2017 Louis Vuitton

runway exclusive. An opportune meeting with casting director Ashley Brokaw led to a trip to Paris and a meeting with the creative director

of Louis Vuitton, Nicolas Ghesquière. “I arrived at the Louis Vuitton offices, and Nicolas was so warm and welcoming,” recalls Theresa.

“They asked me to do my walk and immediately wanted me to try on a couple looks! As I did my walk, they asked me to walk stronger and

harder.” Though walking as an exclusive in back-to-back Louis Vuitton shows ranks high on Theresa’s favorite bookings list, it’s working with

one of her idols and walking for a legendary design house that are at the top. “One of my favorite bookings has to be my Fenty campaign.

I had so much fun being on set with friends and getting to be in Rihanna’s presence! She’s truly a work of art in front of the camera. I’ve

never seen someone work the camera the way she did. It was magic! Another favorite would be my first YSL show. Walking in front of the

lit Eiffel Tower was magical. I cried like a baby.”

Photographed by Amy Troost,

Harper’s Bazaar

US, March 2018

TOMIKO

FRASER

HINES

Clients:

Chanel, CoverGirl, John Galliano, Maybelline, Vivienne Westwood

Magazines:

American

Vogue, Cosmopolitan, Essence, Flare, Seventeen

United States

|

1993–Present

By becoming the first African American model to receive a contract with Maybelline cosmetics, Tomiko Fraser Hines made history. “In

the modeling world, booking a cosmetics campaign is like a sports team winning the Super Bowl. It’s the best thing ever! I was thrilled,”

recalls Tomiko. A forerunner of the natural hair movement, Tomiko was one of the first successful models of color to eschew a relaxer and

hair weave. “I was a reluctant trailblazer. I fought tooth and nail not to be natural at the time. I had to go natural at the strong suggestion

of a trichologist. I wasn’t trying to be a trailblazer, but everything works out as it should. I still get recognized by women who say, ‘I saw

someone who looked like me, with my hair texture.’ Those Maybelline ads make me proud to have been a representation of what’s possible

to so many women.”

Photographed by Hans Feurer,

Cosmopolitan

US, July 1998

111

MARCELLAS: How did you get discovered, and what was

your first agency?

TOMIKO:

I was working in a restaurant on Twenty-Second

Street called Lola, and a woman who owned a small agency was

a customer there. One day she approached me and said, “I’d love

to represent you.” At that time, I was dabbling in modeling, but I

didn’t have representation, so I jumped on board with her. After

six months of being represented by her, I saw her ability to take

me where I knew I could go was limited, because she was a small

agency, very new, and not known. So with her blessing and with

my gratitude for what she had shown me and how she had helped

me grow, I moved on to a more prominent agency. My first big

agency was Wilhelmina, where I stayed for just a handful of years

before I moved on to Ford Models, where I spent the majority of

my career.

What challenges did you face at the start of your career?

Was it smooth sailing once you signed with Wilhelmina?

Back then being a black model—and even now, though not as

much, there are still struggles and challenges involved with being

a model—your skin complexion was a concern. [You would go]

to a shoot, and the makeup artists [would] not [have] the right

makeup for you. Plus, hairstylists [would] have no idea what to

do with your hair. Another challenge? Agencies [were] not able

to see past the color of your skin to present you to specific cli-

ents, because they felt that maybe the client did not want to have

a black model represent them. That happens to this day, so I feel

like the challenges we faced in the mid-to-late nineties are the

same, unfortunately.

Did you ever experience racism during your career?

Living in Europe is a whole book within itself. It was challenging

being a black model during show season unless you were a known

black model. They were obviously hiring Naomi, Tyra, and Debra

Shaw, who were well-known. I experienced blatant racism. You

would go to a cattle call where there would be hundreds of girls

waiting for three hours to get to the front of the line with your

book. In Paris, a woman said to me, “I’m sorry, darling, we are not

seeing black girls this season.” To which I replied, “What? Can

you put a sign on the door so that all the black girls can leave?”

Why make us wait for three hours only to tell us “We are not see-

ing black girls this season”?

Girl, that is awful! It so often seems the cards are stacked

against black models.

I literally was a rail, I mean emaciated, and I was not starving

myself. I just used to be a lot thinner, but women of color some-

times have hips, and they have behinds that are a blessing. I was

told, “Oh, your backside is a little bit too big,” and that kind of stuff.

That was probably the hardest. And as I alluded to, the hair and

the makeup more often than not were challenges for nonblack

hair and makeup artists. They didn’t know what to do. However,

there was a team in Paris under Odile Gilbert, who we women of

color just loved, because Odile, though she was French and not

black, would hire all of the greatest black hair and makeup people

to come over from New York. They would take care of us, and we

would look great and not second fiddle because we did not [have]

“the look” that the designer was going for in his show because

their hair and makeup team didn’t know what to do with “our”

hair and makeup. Those were just some of the challenges.

At what moment did you know you were a success as a

model?

Of course, getting my Maybelline contract, but I felt I was a suc-

cess before that because of the consistency that I worked. I was

working damn near every day. I had a lot of great, loyal clients. . . .

My personality is [that] I’m always going to do my best and

strive for the best for me. As with my first agency, Lure, and with

Wilhelmina, I reached the top of what I felt was their potential to

get me where I wanted to go, and that’s when I moved on to Ford.

Ford got me everything.

What is the most significant life lesson modeling taught you?

I’m a big believer in knowing that your truth, who you are, is

more than enough. At almost fifty years old and working in fash-

ion for over twenty-five years, the biggest lesson that modeling

taught me is authenticity, and to present your real self. I struggled

with that for many years. I don’t begrudge anything, because I

feel everything I’ve gone through has led me to be the amazing

woman that I am now.

A Conversation with Tomiko

Photographed by Hans Feurer,

Cosmopolitan

US, July 1998

CHANEL

IMAN

Clients:

Balenciaga, Carolina Herrera, Chanel, Dior, Valentino

Magazines:

American

Vogue, Harper’s Bazaar

US,

L’Officiel

Paris,

Numéro, Vogue

Italia

United States

|

2006–Present

Photographed by Emma Summerton,

Vogue

Italia, February 2011

BEVERLY

JOHNSON

Clients:

Calvin Klein, Emanuel Ungaro, Revlon, Valentino, Versace

Magazines:

American

Vogue,

British

Vogue, Elle

France,

Glamour, Harper’s Bazaar

Italia

United States

|

1971–Present

All-American girl Beverly Johnson made history in August 1974 when she became the first black woman to grace the cover

of American

Vogue.

More than four decades later, the model, mother, actress, and entrepreneur still can’t contain her excitement over

her groundbreaking cover. “It was everything! That was the first defining moment of my life—that cover. It was like the world stopped

for me.” It wouldn’t be Beverly’s only defining moment. One of the top models during the seventies and eighties, Beverly also became

the first woman of color to cover

Elle

France in 1975.

Photographed by Francesco Scavullo, American

Vogue,

August 1974

116

MARCELLAS: Beverly, take me back to the day you found

out you got the cover of

Vogue.

BEVERLY:

August 1974. Let’s go back a little further, six months

before the cover actually hit the stands. Ford, owned by Eileen

Ford, was one of the foremost modeling agencies in the world.

I was very honored to be a part of Eileen’s agency, because ear-

lier I had gone on an open call at the Ford agency, and Eileen had

turned me down. She said I was too fat.

WHAT?! Why didn’t you sign with one of the black agen-

cies? Were Black Beauties and Ophelia DeVore still around?

Yes, but they turned me down. I was very shy, and of course,

being eighteen years old, I was very naive. I started my career free-

lance modeling for

Vogue

and

Glamour

magazines. I didn’t tell

them I was working for

Vogue

and

Glamour

magazines, though.

I wasn’t discouraged, because I was already working, and those

photographs would be out in three months. I knew Ford was the

agency you wanted to be with, but Eileen had already turned me

down. I remember waiting with all of the other models to be seen

by Eileen. She literally went around and said, “No. No. No. No.”

Then she got to me and said, “Too fat.” That was it. Later I got a

phone call. Eileen Ford wanted to meet with me. I trekked back

from Brooklyn, on the subway, to Ford. It was early in the morn-

ing, and as soon as I walked in, she was standing there and said,

“You lost so much weight!” I thought, “What?!” I knew I hadn’t

lost any weight, because they used to have these strawberry Good

Humor bars, and I was eating a lot of those at the time! I learned

right then that there were a lot of people who didn’t tell the truth

in the world of modeling agencies. I just said, “OK,” and signed

with Ford, which led to really working a lot and traveling all over

the world.

Eileen Ford was the first woman I had seen wield a lot of power.

I never saw a woman run a business, manage an office, or talk to

clients as she had. I saw some models come in and talk to Eileen

about things that they wanted or clients that they wanted to work

for, and she was always very receptive. I scheduled a meeting with

her, and I told her my wish list, which was all the things I wanted

to accomplish as a model and as a businessperson. I told her I

wanted a cosmetics deal and I wanted to write a beauty book. She

said, “Yes, OK.” I told her I wanted to do runway shows, and she

said, “I don’t know about that.” I was a cover girl, a print model,

and print models didn’t do runway. Then I said, “I want to be on

the cover of

Vogue.

” At the time I was on the cover of magazines

all over the world and had multiple

Glamour

magazine covers.

Eileen said, “You will never be on the cover of

Vogue.

” It stunned

me, and I didn’t ask why. I just absorbed what she said. I thought

about it a long time. One thing I knew about Eileen is that when

she said you weren’t going to get something, she meant you

weren’t going to get it. For models, the

Vogue

cover is the most

coveted accomplishment you can achieve. That’s our gold medal.

That’s our Oscar. As a model, you’ve reached the top once you

receive an American

Vogue

cover. Not British

Vogue,

the Ameri-

can

Vogue

cover—and that’s what I wanted. That’s when I real-

ized I’m not going to get that cover with Eileen Ford. I needed to

go somewhere else, and her competitor was Wilhelmina Models.

I called Wilhelmina, and she said she would love to have me. I

then went in to Ford, and I told Eileen, “I’m going to Wilhelmina

Models. No hard feelings, but this is a business decision for me.

I hope that at another time, if I decide to come back, that I would

be welcomed back. I wanted to speak to you face-to-face because

you’ve been like a parent to me. I appreciate everything you’ve

done for me thus far, but I’m going to Wilhelmina Models.”

A lot of people have spoken of Eileen Ford, but no one men-

tions Wilhelmina Cooper. Do you think she was a better

agent than Eileen because she had been a model and had

that experience firsthand?

Yes, but not only that . . . Wilhelmina, a brunette with brown eyes,

was with Ford while she modeled, in the era of blond, blue-eyed

models. As a model, she was an underdog who made it big. When

she decided to start an agency, she was a rebel in every sense of

the word. Eileen Ford disliked her so much because Wilhelmina

Models was her first real competition as an agency. Thus there

was a home for models with dark hair and eyes and also black

models. I wasn’t the only black model at Wilhelmina. She under-

stood my plight when I came in to meet her. “I think I can get you

the cover. I think I can do it for you.” Sure enough, six months

later I got the phone call. It was early morning, and she was on the

phone. She said, “You got the cover.” I said, “The cover of what?”

At that point, I was on covers everywhere. She said, “The cover

of

Vogue.

” I asked, “

Vogue

magazine?” She said, “Yeah.” I asked,

“Well, how do you know? When does it come out?” She said, “It’s

on the newsstands now.” I asked, “Right now?” She said, “Right

A Conversation with Beverly

117

now!” I’m getting excited telling you about it right now. That’s

how exciting it was for me.

I vividly remember putting on my cutoff blue jeans and T-shirt

as fast as I could. I remember running down to the newsstand. It

was the banner of the newsstand. That cover was all around the

newsstand. I thought, “Oh my God!” It was such a pretty picture.

I got in line with the rest of the people waiting to buy their

New

York Post

or

Daily News

and their pack of cigarettes before they

went down into the subway. I couldn’t wait to get up there and

get that magazine and hold it in my hand and look at it. I remem-

ber getting to the front, and I said to the guy behind the counter,

“

Vogue

magazine, that one right there!” I was showing the people

in line, and they were like, “Hurry up, lady!” I was like, “My God!

This is me!” Of course, I didn’t have the money to pay for the

magazine, so I’m trying to convince the guy behind the newsstand

to give it to me. “Listen, this is me on the cover, and I live in that

building right over there.” Then he says that famous line: “Lady, if

that were you on the cover, you would have the money to pay for

it.” So New York!

Then I found out I was the first woman of color on the cover. That

was why Eileen said I wouldn’t have it. It seemed impossible.

How could there not have been a person of color on the cover of

Vogue?

Look at all we went through in the sixties. It didn’t even

seem possible I was the first. I got angry. That began my journey

of self-discovery—learning who I was as an African American.

I learned the struggle of slavery and my ancestors. I made an

effort to study it. . . . It fueled me and gave me a sense of identity

I wouldn’t have had if it weren’t for that cover. The cover changed

me. I had on blinders before. It changed me because it was such

a huge responsibility. It was intense. People stopped me on the

street. Women stopped me with their daughters. “You don’t

know what this means—with you on this cover, now I can tell my

daughter that she is beautiful, and her black skin is beautiful.” It

really stood for something much deeper than a

Vogue

cover in the

modeling world. It stood for the acceptance of black beauty in

America. It was a huge statement for black America.

What were some of your other career highlights?

In 1975 I’m in New York working with Patrick Demarchelier, and

he says we’re doing a cover try for

Elle

France. It was the most

gorgeous picture, a little lace white top; you know, very Patrick

Demarchelier. I was the first woman of color on the cover of

Elle

France. France, where all the black people like Paul Robeson

and Josephine Baker went because it was so welcoming. That

blew my mind more than the American

Vogue

cover because of

what we thought about France, that they didn’t see color. I didn’t

believe it.

I did not know you were the first woman of color on the

cover of

Elle

France!

Yes, I was. Another highlight, aside from all of the covers, was

being able to be a runway model and photographic model at the

same time. That was a big fight with the agency, who didn’t want

you to do shows, because it brought down your rate as a photo-

graphic model. I fought hard to be able to do that. I wanted to

know the designers and to know that world. I wanted to be a muse.

It was an incredible experience meeting the designers. Givenchy.

Ferré. It was otherworldly being in the room with these great

designers, having them drape and make clothes for you. It was

an incredible experience.

It must have been amazing to be in the room with Halston

during that period.

Oh my God! Oh, it was incredible! With the cigarette hanging out

of his mouth and the chiffon flying. It was magical. And even in

Europe, where you really worked one-on-one. It was just you,

the designer, and the seamstress. Imagine Gianfranco Ferré sit-

ting on this little stool with his big stomach while you’re up on the

platform. I have so many fond memories, like Valentino inviting

me to these places outside of Rome. He was such a teacher. We’d

go to museums together. It was not only an education in fashion,

it was also an education in living.

It seems like a dream for a girl from upstate New York.

Yeah, I’m a little girl from Buffalo, New York. It was totally a

fairy tale.

119

“[My

Vogue

cover] really

stood for

something

much deeper

than a

Vogue

cover in

the modeling

world. It

stood for the

acceptance of

black beauty

in America.

It was a huge

statement

for black

America.”

—Beverly Johnson

Photographed by Rico Puhlmann,

Glamour,

May 1973

AYA

JONES

Clients:

Dolce & Gabbana, Giambattista Valli, Miu Miu, Prada, Valentino

Magazines:

American

Vogue,

British

Vogue, L’Officiel

Paris,

Numéro, W Magazine

France

|

2014–Present

Photographed by Nico Bustos,

Vogue

España, March 2016

Clients:

Azzedine Alaïa, Claude Montana, Kenzo, Yves Saint Laurent

Magazines:

American

Vogue, Elle

US,

Interview, Stern, Vogue

Italia

Jamaica

|

1967–Present

GRACE

JONES

Photographed by Hans Feurer,

Vogue

Paris, 1973

125

“I grew up

using my

imagination

to make

reality work

for me.

In order to

make a

connection

with reality,

I made up a

world where

I could live.”

—Grace Jones,

I’ll Never Write My Memoirs

Photographed by Rankin,

Libération Next,

October 2008

126

Clients:

CoverGirl, Gucci, L’Oréal, Tom Ford, Versace

Magazines:

American

Vogue,

British

Vogue, Harper’s Bazaar

US,

Vogue

Italia,

W Magazine

Uganda

|

1991–Present

As a child in Uganda, political unrest turned Kiara Kabukuru’s life upside down. Her parents were forced to flee the country, while she and

her siblings went into hiding. With the help of Amnesty International, her family reunited in the United States, relocating to Los Angeles.

Years later, during a visit to a California shopping mall, sixteen-year-old Kiara’s stellar modeling career began after she was discovered by

photographer Bill Bodwell. Kiara’s first booking, a Coca-Cola commercial, led to a Levi’s ad shot by legendary lensman Albert Watson.

Soon Kiara moved to New York, where she briefly lived with Eileen Ford, sharing a room with top model Bridget Hall.

As with most models, a chance meeting with an influential figure in fashion proved to be Kiara’s breakthrough. After a Gucci charity

show in London, the designer introduced himself. “Hi, I’m Tom Ford, and I think you’re great.” That meeting resulted in a Gucci runway

exclusive as well as an ad campaign. From there Kiara became one of fashion’s most sought-after models, with bookings for multiple

magazine covers, including American

Vogue

and

Elle

UK, and a contract with L’Oréal cosmetics. Set to sign a second cosmetics contract

with CoverGirl, Kiara suffered a near-fatal accident in 2000. While riding her bike, she was struck by an eighteen-wheeler and suffered

massive injuries that required multiple reconstructive surgeries. In 2008, Kiara made her triumphant return to modeling with an editorial

in

Vogue

Italia’s “All Black” issue, photographed by Steven Meisel, and received a cosmetics contract with CoverGirl in 2009.

Photographed by Max Cardelli,

Elle

UK, June 2003

KIARA

KABUKURU

LIYA

KEBEDE

Clients:

Calvin Klein, Estée Lauder, Gucci, Tom Ford, Yves Saint Laurent

Magazines:

American

Vogue, Vogue

España,

Vogue

Italia,

Vogue

Japan,

Vogue

Paris

Ethiopia

|

1998–Present

Supermodel, philanthropist, actress, and designer, Liya Kebede beautifully wears many hats. It all began with an introduction to a French

modeling agent while Liya was still in school in Addis Ababa, Ethiopia. That introduction led Liya to Paris, then to a brief stop in Chicago,

and on to New York, where she made her runway debut in the Spring/Summer 2000 Ralph Lauren runway show. At a casting, Liya

caught the eye of designer Tom Ford, who bestowed upon her a Gucci Fall/Winter 2000 exclusive, and Liya rocketed to model stardom.

Photographed by Andreas Sjödin,

Elle

France, March 2014

130

2000

Walks in the Fall/Winter

Ralph Lauren runway show

Chosen by Tom Ford as an

exclusive for the Gucci Fall/

Winter 2000 fashion show

2001

Becomes the face of Yves

Saint Laurent

2002

The entire May

Vogue

Paris

issue is dedicated to Liya,

including the cover

Walks in the Victoria’s Secret

fashion show for the first time

2003

Signs a multiyear cosmetics

contract with Estée Lauder,

becoming the first black model

to do so

2004

Featured on the September

cover of American

Vogue

as

one of the “Models of the

Moment”

Featured on the September

cover of

Essence

magazine

2005

Appears on the May cover

of American

Vogue

2006

Starts the Liya Kebede Foun-

dation to reduce maternal,

newborn, and child mortality in

Ethiopia and around the globe

Liya Kebede:

A Fifteen-year

Timeline

•

----------------------------

•

--------------

•

----------------------------

•

---------------------

•

--------------------------------

•

--------------

•

------------------------------------------

Photographed by Alexi Lubomirski,

Vogue

Germany, April 2007

131

2007

Appears in the Fall/Winter

Estée Lauder advertising

campaign

2008

Featured on the cover of the

Vogue

Italia “All Black” issue

Launches Lemlem, an artisan-

driven fashion label

2009

Appears on the May cover

of American

Vogue

Stars in the film

Desert Flower,

the story of Somalian model

Waris Dirie

2010

Chosen as one of

Time

magazine’s 100 most influential

people

Appears on the September

cover of

Essence

with Iman

and Naomi Campbell

2011

Signs a multiyear cosmetics

contract with L’Oréal and

shoots the Fall/Winter

advertising campaign

2013

Named one of

Glamour

maga-

zine’s Women of the Year

2014

Featured on the September

cover of

Vogue

Italia

2015

Featured on the May

cover of

Vogue

Paris for

the second time

--------------

•

-----------------

•

------------------------

•

-----------------------------

•

---------------------------------

•

---------------------

•

-------------

•

--------------

•

------------

Photographed by Inez and Vinoodh,

Vogue

Paris, May 2002

Clients:

11 Honoré, Ann Taylor, Christian Siriano, Lane Bryant, Saks Fifth Avenue

Magazines:

Essence, Glamour, Harper’s Bazaar

US

, Love

,

V Magazine

United States

|

2007–Present

Photographed by Paul Thatcher,

V Magazine,

Spring 2018

PRECIOUS

LEE

Clients:

Christian Siriano, Jean Paul Gaultier, Versace, Vivienne Westwood, Zac Posen

Magazines:

Allure, V Magazine, Vogue

Italia,

Vogue

Paris,

W Magazine

United States

|

2004–Present

For Dominican stunner Sessilee Lopez, booking the cover of

Vogue

Italia—photographed by Steven Meisel—changed everything. “My

Vogue

Italia cover was an amazing experience, working with the best in the industry. To have them look at me and realize my face belongs

on the cover, and not just any cover, but the cover of the

Vogue

Italia ‘All Black’ issue, dedicated to women of color? They wanted to

place my little face on the cover! I didn’t believe it. I thought maybe it was a supplement until I saw [the magazine] at the airport. I was like,

‘Oh my God, this is unreal,’” says Sessilee.

“The moment I knew I was a success was a year after my

Vogue

Italia cover when the momentum was still there, and people were still

intrigued by me and wanted to know who I was as a person aside from ‘Sessilee the model.‘ That surprised me. At the start of my career,

I’d see Liya, Naomi, and Tyra, and I was just dying for them to take a second look at me. The next thing you know, I’m shooting with these

girls or flying across the world to work with Naomi. That’s when it hit that I’m worthy.”

Photographed by Laurent Elie Badessi,

Dress to Kill,

January 2013

SESSILEE

LOPEZ

KARLY

LOYCE

Clients:

Céline, Chanel, Jil Sander, Marc Jacobs, Roberto Cavalli

Magazines:

American

Vogue,

British

Vogue, i-D, Numéro, Vogue

Paris

Martinique

|

2014–Present

Photographed by Txema Yeste,

Numéro

France, June 2018

DONYALE

LUNA

Magazines:

American

Vogue,

British

Vogue, Harper’s Bazaar

US,

Paris Match, Vogue

Paris

United States

|

1964–1979

Donyale Luna made fashion history as the first black woman on the cover of British

Vogue

in March 1966. That was eight years before

Beverly Johnson appeared on the cover of American

Vogue

in 1974, ten years before Iman appeared on the cover of

Vogue

Italia in

1976, and twenty-two years before Naomi Campbell became the first black woman on the cover of

Vogue

Paris in 1988. Donyale’s cover

of British

Vogue

made the “otherworldly beautiful” model a couturier favorite and runway superstar. It is also important to note that in

January 1965

Harper’s Bazaar

used an illustration of Donyale on its cover, and later that year she was featured on the June cover, making

her the first black model to cover

Harper’s Bazaar

, and she (arguably) did it twice in one year. One of the first successful black models to

make the transition from model to actress, Donyale became a muse to both artist and filmmaker Andy Warhol and famed film director

Federico Fellini.

Photographed by David Bailey, British

Vogue,

March 1966

ANAIS

MALI

Clients:

Carolina Herrera, Michael Kors, Polo Ralph Lauren, Victoria’s Secret, Vivienne Westwood

Magazines:

American

Vogue, L’Officiel

Paris,

Vogue

Arabia,

Vogue

España,

Vogue

Japan

France

|

2009–Present

Photographed by Victor Demarchelier,

Glamour,

April 2017

RILEY

MONTANA

Clients:

Bottega Veneta, Carolina Herrera, Emanuel Ungaro, Jeremy Scott, Marc Jacobs

Magazines:

Elle

UK,

Harper’s Bazaar

UK,

Harper’s Bazaar

US,

Vogue

España

United States

|

2013–Present

Photographed by Sebastian Kim,

Numéro

France, January 2014

Clients:

Jeremy Scott, Jil Sander, Maybelline, Narcisco Rodriguez, Valentino

Magazines:

American

Vogue, Glamour, Teen Vogue, V Magazine, Vogue

España

Jamaica

|

2013–Present

Photographed by Horst Diekgerdes,

Glamour,

November 2014

KAI

NEWMAN

Clients:

Alexander Wang, Chanel, Dolce & Gabbana, Jacquemus, Victoria’s Secret

Magazines:

American

Vogue, Vogue

Germany,

Vogue

Japan,

Vogue

Korea,

Vogue

Paris

Nigeria

|

2014–Present

“Never be afraid to take steps toward your goal,” says Mayowa Nicholas, who has definitely followed her own advice. “I was scouted in

2013 for the Elite Model Look Nigeria competition but joined in 2014. I ended up winning, and that’s how it all started.” The runway star,

whose first fashion show was Schiaparelli, has since walked for Balmain, Hermès, and Kenzo and attributes her success to dedication and

a sense of humility. “I am a hardworking person in general, and that really shows in my career. I’ve been so grateful for everything I have

accomplished, and I am super excited for what’s to come!” Though her career is red-hot, with multiple editorials for American

Vogue

,

including one with legendary photographer Peter Lindbergh, and her first

Vogue

cover—

Vogue

Germany—by Luigi & Iango, Mayowa has

an eye on a career beyond fashion. “There’s still so much to explore and do with modeling, but in the future, I plan on opening a skin care

line and also going back to get my degree in accounting and business management.”

Photographed by Daniel Riera,

Harper’s Bazaar

US, September 2017

MAYOWA

NICHOLAS

GAIL

O’NEILL

Clients:

Bloomingdale’s, Calvin Klein, Neiman Marcus, Revlon, Saks Fifth Avenue

Magazines:

American

Vogue, Elle

US,

Harper’s Bazaar

US,

Sports Illustrated

Swimsuit Issue,

Vogue

Italia

United States

|

1980s–Present

Photographed by Gilles Bensimon,

Elle

US, July 1988

Clients:

Azzedine Alaïa, CoverGirl, Gianfranco Ferré, Missoni, Prada

Magazines:

American

Vogue, Elle

US,

Marie Claire

US,

Vogue

Australia,

Vogue

Italia

Canada

|

1980s–Present

Photographed by Anthony Gordon,

Vogue

Australia, June 1990

LANA

OGILVIE

153

C

anada, with stars like Linda Evangelista,

Shalom Harlow, and Yasmeen Ghauri, has its fair share of super-

models. But any conversation about top Canadian models must

include Lana Ogilvie, the first black model to sign a multiyear

contract with CoverGirl cosmetics. Though a successful model-

ing career beckoned, Lana did not hear fashion’s call. “I wanted

to be an architect, because I loved buildings,” recalls Lana. “I was

not necessarily a pretty girl. Maybe I shouldn’t say that, but I

didn’t see myself like that. I was kind of nerdy.” A chance meeting

at a high school fashion show set Lana on the path to stardom.

“During my senior year, I did a fashion show. A friend, also in the

show, invited talent scout Elmer Olsen, who asked me to model.

Katie Ford and Trudi Tapscott, the head scout at Elite, came to

meet with my parents. My parents decided that I was signing

with Ford because I would live at Eileen Ford’s house. I signed

before graduation in June, and I was in New York a week later,”

says Lana.

While living with Eileen and Jerry Ford during her first season in

New York, Lana found herself with two very famous roommates:

Naomi Campbell and Christy Turlington. “It was hard. I was not

working a lot, and those girls were working. Christy was on the

cover of British

Vogue,

and Naomi was London’s new star. I was

doing big things in Canada, but not in New York.” Her Canadian

roots would prove instrumental, though. “The reason I did a lot of

the things I did was due to my first agent, Elmer, who had been a

hairdresser before becoming an agent. I got in with

Elle

because

the model booker there was Elmer’s client. He didn’t have to wait

for my New York agency to call them. He was pitching his own

girls right away. All of his models did well.”

Lana regularly worked for

Glamour

and

Seventeen

magazines

in the United States, but it was a trip to Paris that provided

her breakthrough. “My first agency in Europe was Elite Paris.

Europe was very important to my career. I worked all the time,

but I barely made any money. . . . I did great stuff and had fun.

I was an editorial model and did a lot of shows.” A major show

girl, Lana made appearances on the runways of legendary design-

ers Azzedine Alaïa, Christian Lacroix, Gianfranco Ferré, Isaac

Mizrahi, and Issey Miyake. “I remember one of the first shows

I did in Paris,” recalls Lana. “I was eighteen, and it was my first

real runway show, for Daniel Hechter. I had to go out with super-

model Marpessa Hennink! Of course, I’m freaking out. I’ve never

been out on a real runway, and I’m going out with Marpessa!

I’m freaked out, and she starts talking to me. We’re going down,

and she’s all moving, smiling, and looking at the crowd, working

her thing. She said, ‘Oh, should we do a turn here?’ And I’m try-

ing to talk through my teeth, not move my face, and have a cool

expression. I said, ‘What?! You can’t talk to me on the runway.

Can you talk to me on the runway? Are we allowed to talk?’ She

said, ‘What are you talking about?’ It was so funny! But that was a

really good experience, because I learned from the girls who

knew what they were doing.”

After several seasons of crisscrossing the globe between Can-

ada, Europe, and the United States, Lana’s love of doing shows

began to wane. “I loved Europe. . . .

But backstage at the shows

was no fun. I didn’t like the atmosphere because of the cattiness

of the girls. I stayed in the States, where I did loads of money jobs.

I worked a lot for

Elle

, appearing in the magazine month after

month after month for years. I lived and worked in New York for

four or five years, until I got my CoverGirl contract, and I thought,

‘I could be more permanent in New York instead of traveling

between Europe and North America.’”

Photographed by Gilles Bensimon,

Elle

US, December 1990

OLUCHI

ONWEAGBA

Clients:

Costume National, Dior, Gianfranco Ferré, John Galliano, Victoria’s Secret

Magazines:

American

Vogue, Elle

South Africa,

Harper’s Bazaar

US,

Sports Illustrated

Swimsuit Issue,

Vogue

Italia

Nigeria

|

1990s–Present

Photographed by Josh Orlins,

Love,

Spring/Summer 2009

MOUNIA

OROSEMANE

Clients:

Chanel, Gianfranco Ferré, Thierry Mugler, Versace, Yves Saint Laurent

Magazines:

American

Vogue, Essence, Harper’s Bazaar

France,

Vogue

Paris

Martinique

|

1970s–Mid-2000s

Artist, humanitarian, legend, and muse. Mounia Orosemane, or “Princess Mounia,” a nickname given to her by designer Yves Saint

Laurent, was called many things during her storied modeling career. Discovered by designer Hubert de Givenchy while working at an

airport near her home in Martinique, Mounia moved to Paris and appeared in his couture show, her very first model booking. Almost

immediately upon her arrival, Mounia became a favorite of designers Karl Lagerfeld, Thierry Mugler, and Gianni Versace. By becoming

one of the most sought-after runway models in the world, Mounia ruled the Parisian haute couture runways for decades. Though she

worked for every major designer during her career, it was her relationship as model and muse to designer Yves Saint Laurent that made

her a star. An appearance in Saint Laurent’s

Porgy and Bess

–

inspired couture show created Mounia’s breakout moment. “After that,

I had more than fifteen covers,” Mounia recalls.

Photographed by Francesco Scavullo,

Essence,

October 1982

Clients:

Chanel, Donna Karan, John Galliano, Versace, Vivienne Westwood

Magazines:

American

Vogue,

British

Vogue, Elle

US,

The Face, Sports Illustrated

Swimsuit Issue

United Kingdom

|

1990s

Photographed by Gilles Bensimon,

Elle

US, August 1997

LORRAINE

PASCALE

Clients:

Badgley Mischka, Esteban Cortazar, Haider Ackermann, Issey Miyake, Naeem Khan

Magazines:

Harper’s Bazaar

Arabia,

i-D, Marie Claire

UK,

V Magazine, Vogue

España

Sudan

|

2011–Present

Photographed by Kope Figgins,

Elle

South Africa, May 2015

NYKHOR

PAUL

EMANUELA

DE PAULA

Clients:

L’Oréal, Ralph Lauren, Tracy Reese, Victoria’s Secret, Zac Posen

Magazines:

American

Vogue, Elle

Italia,

GQ, Marie Claire

US,

W Magazine

“I’ve wanted to be a model since I was a little girl,” recalls Brazilian bombshell Emanuela de Paula. “I remember watching Gisele Bündchen

on the Victoria’s Secret runway and being amazed!” It didn’t take Emanuela long to follow in Gisele’s footsteps. Literally. At age sixteen

she shot for Victoria’s Secret for the first time. In 2009, she signed a three-year contract with the brand, making her an Angel, and

since then she has walked in the fashion show multiple times. Though her work with Victoria’s Secret has taken her around the globe, it’s

shooting the Pirelli calendar in Kenya with legendary photographer Peter Beard that ranks as her favorite booking.

Photographed by Ben Watts,

Marie Claire

UK, June 2010

Brazil

|

2006–Present

165

MARCELLAS: How did you get started as a model?

EMANUELA:

When I was nine years old, I started courses to

learn how to walk, present myself, and do a little makeup. It was a

fun experience as a child!

What was your first paid booking?

On my second day in São Paulo, I went to a casting and got the

job for a whole month. I was so happy. It was a fitting job for a

Brazilian brand.

At what moment did you know you were a successful model?

I still feel like there are so many things I need to achieve, but at

the same time I have passed my expectations on where I would

be at this stage. I’m super grateful for always having the most sup-

portive people through my journey. My agents, my friends, my

family!

So far, what has been your most prestigious booking?

When I was sixteen, I did my first shoot with Victoria’s Secret in

Caracas. I was so young, but I knew my life would change from

that moment.

Do you have a favorite booking?

My favorite booking was the Pirelli calendar photographed by

Peter Beard in Kenya. It was a life-changing experience—three

days living and working with elephants and learning so much

from great professionals.

Looking forward, what do you want to do next or in addition

to modeling?

I consider myself a very creative person with many passions, but

nothing has yet overcome my love for modeling. I love taking pic-

tures, so perhaps that could be my next career.

What is the most significant life lesson modeling has taught

you?

Modeling has taught me everything. It has made me who I am

today. It’s a brutal life for young girls, and you have to be very

focused and accept each process. It has been my university for

the past twelve years, and I am more than grateful for it.

A Conversation with Emanuela

Photographed by Jonty Davies,

Red

UK, October 2017

During her short but stellar career, Beverly Peele appeared on the covers of an estimated 250 fashion magazines. In the 1990s Beverly

became an editorial force, shooting with every major photographer in the world. A certified runway star, Beverly appeared in shows for

fashion’s top designers, like Azzedine Alaïa, Giorgio Armani, Chanel, Comme des Garçons, Thierry Mugler, and the first-ever Victoria’s

Secret fashion show. She appeared in advertising campaigns for Dolce & Gabbana, Ralph Lauren, and Versace. Beverly retired from

modeling in 1995 to raise her daughter and eventually transitioned into acting, with appearances in music videos, on several television

shows, and in the film

Sweet Friggin’ Daisies,

starring opposite actress Zooey Deschanel. Recently, Beverly began modeling again, signing

with New York agency Iconic Focus, which is owned by Patty Sicular, the former vice president of Ford Models.

Photographed by Gilles Bensimon,

Elle

US, alternate shot, November 1992

BEVERLY

PEELE

Clients:

Azzedine Alaïa, Chanel, Comme des Garçons, Jean Paul Gaultier, Versace

Magazines:

American

Vogue,

British

Vogue, Elle

US,

Mademoiselle, Vogue

Italia

United States

|

1987–1995

168

Beverly Peele:

Career Timeline

•

------------------------------------------------

•

-------------------------

•

---------------------------------

•

-----------------------------------------------------

1989

Featured on the February

cover of

Mademoiselle,

the youngest model ever

to do so

Featured on the April

cover of

Mademoiselle,

her

second within a year

Featured on the May cover

of

Seventeen

magazine

1990

Appears in a January

British

Vogue

editorial

Appears in a September

Elle

France editorial

1991

Walks in the Spring/

Summer Azzedine Alaïa,

Chanel, and Karl Lagerfeld

runway shows

Featured on the November

cover of

Elle

US

1992

Appears in a George

Michael video for “Too

Funky” alongside top

models Tyra Banks and

Linda Evangelista

Photographed by Tiziano Magni,

Elle

France, March 1992

--------------------------------------------------

•

--------------------------------------------

•

-------------------------------------

•

-----------------------------------------

•

-----------------------

Featured on the March

cover of

Elle

España

Appears in a May American

Vogue

editorial with models

Tyra Banks and Naomi

Campbell

1993

Featured on the January

cover of American Vogue

Featured on the April cover

of

Vogue

Germany with

models Jenny Brunt and

Claudia Mason

Featured on the April cover

of

Vogue

Italia

1994

Featured on the January

cover of

Elle

France

Featured on the April cover

of

Vogue

Italia

Featured on the November

cover of

Elle

France

1995

Walks in the first Victoria’s

Secret fashion show

Walks in the Spring/

Summer Chloé, Karl

Lagerfeld, and Michael Kors

runway shows

Retires from modeling

1996

Returns to the runway to

walk in the Victoria’s Secret

fashion show

“Beverly can

become anything the

photographer wants

her to be, and she has

one of the best bodies

in the business.”

—Jennifer Berry, model booker,

People

BRANDI

QUINONES

Clients:

Azzedine Alaïa, Chanel, John Galliano, Prada, Versace

Magazines:

American

Vogue,

British

Vogue, Elle

España,

Elle

US,

Vogue

Italia

United States

|

1993–Present

Bombshell Brandi Quinones famously replied when asked about modeling, “My job is to make the clothes look beautiful, make my money,

and leave, you know?” Brandi, who was discovered at a Florida shopping mall, quickly became a favorite of designers Azzedine Alaïa,

Gianni Versace, and most notably Karl Lagerfeld, who cast her in a Chanel runway show two days after her arrival in Paris. She would

also appear in multiple advertising campaigns for Chanel. Known for her signature walk, Brandi became a runway superstar, appearing in

numerous shows for designers such as Christian Dior, Jean Paul Gaultier, Givenchy, Yves Saint Laurent, and Versace. In 1994, at age

seventeen, Brandi landed the cover of American

Vogue

alongside fellow top models Bridget Hall and Niki Taylor, cementing her status as

one of fashion’s most exciting new faces.

Photographed by Gilles Bensimon,

Elle

España, May 1993

Magazines:

Glamour, Jet, Ladies’ Home Journal, Mademoiselle, Seventeen

United States

|

1960s–1980s

Daphne Maxwell Reid started her career with a groundbreaking first. In October 1969, she became the first black model featured on the

cover of

Glamour

magazine.¹ Her first appearance in

Seventeen

magazine led to a meeting with Eileen Ford, the legendary owner of Ford

Models. “At our first meeting Eileen pinched my upper arm and said, ‘Lose five pounds,’ which I did,” recalls Daphne. Daphne went on to

have successful careers as an actress, model, and producer, but the

Glamour

cover remains her favorite. “It’s my most enduring photo!”

Photographed by Jack Ward,

Glamour,

October 1969

DAPHNE

MAXWELL

REID

Jolie Jones, photographed by George Barkentin,

Mademoiselle,

March 1969

175

MARCELLAS: When do you feel you became a real, work-

ing model?

DAPHNE:

Immediately. I started working after I did a

Seven-

teen

magazine “Real Girl” interview. I got a full-page photo, and

that was the start. Right away I was working for

Mademoiselle

and

Glamour.

I was still in college at Northwestern University in

Chicago. I would get on a plane to New York, work, and fly back

home. I’d miss maybe one or two days of school, but it was easy

for me to catch up.

At what moment did you know you were a success?

I was successful from the beginning. It was the 1960s, and I was

part of a cultural shift. People in fashion were looking for black

faces that were relatable to the masses. With my light skin, freck-

les, and smile, I was one of their choices. I was luckily in the right

place at the right time. My whole career and life has been luck

and guided by a higher power.

Did you get the sense you were Ford Models’ “black girl”?

In 1967, in advertising and fashion, [agents] were trying to find

models who were “acceptable” to clients who didn’t want to book

black models. It was the light-skinned models, like Jolie [Jones]

2

and I, who were kind of acceptable. They said, “OK, we can have

a black girl because she’s not too black!” Later we got Beverly

Johnson, who was dark-skinned and beautiful, and there were

runway girls who were dark-skinned and beautiful, and clients

and advertisers started accepting more. So no, I didn’t feel like I

was the only black girl modeling.

Do you have any favorite model memories?

I was booked for

Ladies’ Home Journal,

who picked me as one

of the “fourteen most beautiful women in the world.” It was the

mid-seventies, when

Ladies’ Home Journal

was an important

magazine. There were beautiful women from all over the world.

Supermodel Cheryl Tiegs was in that picture. I was floored, and I

thought, “Holy cow! I’m in a great bunch!”

Do you have a favorite booking?

Shooting the cover of

Glamour

magazine remains my favorite.

I was the first African American woman on the cover. A stylist I

worked with often, Amy Greene, flew me to New York from Chi-

cago. When I arrived, she put mascara and lip gloss on me and

pulled my hair into a ponytail. Amy added a red leather jacket

over the turtleneck I was wearing and popped the collar. The

photographer had me sit on a windowsill and told me to smile.

He took maybe twelve photos. I was done in fifteen minutes and

took a plane back to Chicago that afternoon. A month and a half

later I was walking by a newsstand and saw myself on the cover of

Glamour

magazine. I had no idea the booking was for the maga-

zine. It was just a test. No one told me that I’d made the cover.

What is the most significant life lesson modeling taught you?

Modeling taught me that if you don’t get a job or a booking, it is

not about you. Don’t be unhappy about it, because it was not your

job. Rejection is not personal. It shouldn’t diminish your spirit or

drive.

1. Harvard undergrad Katiti Kironde appeared on the August 1968 cover of

Glamour College

, a special issue of

Glamour

magazine highlighting the best-

dressed college juniors in America.

2. Jolie Jones was the first black model to appear on the cover of

Mademoiselle

magazine and to appear inside

Seventeen

magazine.

A Conversation with Daphne

Katiti Kironde, photographed by Jack Ward,

Glamour College,

August 1968

LAIS

RIBEIRO

Clients:

Givenchy, Hermès, Michael Kors, Tom Ford, Victoria’s Secret

Magazines:

American

Vogue, L’Officiel

Paris,

Vogue

Brazil,

Vogue

Germany,

Vogue

Italia

Brazil

|

2009–Present

Photographed by Greg Kadel,

Vogue

Brazil, February 2017

STEPHANIE

ROBERTS

Clients:

Azzedine Alaïa, Chanel, Lolita Lempicka, Rifat Özbek, Sportmax

Magazines:

American

Vogue, Elle

France,

Elle

UK,

Glamour

France,

Vogue

Italia

United States

|

1987–2006

As a young girl, Stephanie Roberts did not think a modeling career was possible. “I never thought of myself modeling until I did it,” says

Stephanie. “In grammar school, I was tall and awkward. I didn’t come into my looks until I hit twenty or twenty

-

one. I look back at some of

the editorials I shot, like the fourteen-page

Vogue

story shot in Jamaica, and I had no idea I was that good

-

looking!” That American

Vogue

editorial, as well as numerous covers and editorials for

Elle

and

Glamour

, catapulted Stephanie to top

-

model status in the nineties.

Stephanie counts famed photographer Ellen von Unwerth as her personal favorite. “She would let me do what I wanted,” says Stephanie.

Ellen would say, ‘OK, go, Steph,’ and I would move! She shot a lot of film, but Ellen would catch pictures that would be fantastic. She

allowed me to relax, and we would get something awesome that was the real me, not fake or contrived.” Though Stephanie did fashion

shows for Azzedine Alaïa, Chanel, and Yves Saint Laurent, runway modeling was never her favorite. “I did the shows because you needed

to do shows to get editorial. I started working with Karl Lagerfeld at Chanel, and he allowed me to be the quirky model that I was. He let

me Rollerblade down the runway and wear Chanel boxing gloves. That was fun! I heard Anna Wintour saw me at a runway show and that’s

how I got

Vogue.

”

Photographed by Gilles Bensimon,

Elle

UK, February 1992

LOIS

SAMUELS

Clients:

Calvin Klein, Christian Lacroix, Dior, Givenchy, Issey Miyake

Magazines:

American

Vogue,

British

Vogue,

Essence,

Vogue

Germany,

Vogue

Italia

Jamaica

|

1995–Present

Discovered at age fourteen by model agent Kingsley Cooper, Lois Samuels started her stellar career with a CK One fragrance campaign

photographed by Steven Meisel. That advertisement led to others for Banana Republic and Club Monaco, as well as editorials

with photographers Ellen von Unwerth, Nick Knight, and Peter Lindbergh. “As a woman of African ancestry, I accomplished wonderful

achievements in the fashion industry,” says Lois. “I was the first Jamaican model with short hair and dark skin to step out and take

it to the level I did. I feel like I was somewhat a role model in that sense, as I represented a change.”

Photographed by James Hicks, unpublished, 1998

Samuels with Frankie Rayder and Natane Boudreau, photographed by Walter Chin,

Vogue

Germany, September 1997

183

MARCELLAS: At what age were you scouted?

LOIS:

I was fourteen years old, attending Hampton, an all-girls

school. I was coming back from piano class and saw a scout who

was going from school to school all over Jamaica. I told myself,

“I’m going to walk back and forth three times, and they better

notice me, because this is it!” So I walked through the courtyard

back and forth, and after the third time I went to my class, and

I thought, “It’s not going to happen,” and as soon as I sat in my

class a woman named Alison came in and said, “Please come with

me!” She took me to meet Kingsley Cooper, the president of one

of the top agencies in Jamaica. He said I had an amazing profile

and asked had I considered modeling. I said, “Of course.”

Kingsley is legendary in Jamaica for starting the careers of

several top models.

Yes! Kingsley held a model competition and I didn’t place. So I

finished up school, and when it was almost graduation, I entered

the competition again and won Most Dynamic. It was disap-

pointing. Afterward, Kingsley took the winner, runners-up, and

a few other girls to Europe and New York. My parents put money

together and sent me on that trip. I didn’t get an agency in Lon-

don or Paris, but in New York, we went to Bethann Management,

and Tyron Barrington was my angel there. He said, “This girl, she

can do it,” and that’s how it happened. I was the one who made it

out of that group.

You didn’t get an agency in Paris or London on your first

trip?

I was like, “Oh my God, this is the end! Something better happen

now!” As far as I was concerned, there was no way I wasn’t going

to get an agency. It had to happen. When I didn’t get an agency in

Paris, I was disappointed. But then there was London and then

New York. On our last day in New York, Bethann was the last

agency we were seeing. My hopes were running out so bad. There

were other girls they were pushing, but Tyron said, “No, I want

Lois.” That was the best thing that happened. That was it.

Did you start working right away?

It took some time. I went back home and came back and did a

cover try for

Essence

magazine. Since high school, I always felt I

had to get the cover of

Essence.

I said, “This has to happen,” but

it didn’t happen the first time. Success didn’t happen right away

for me. Going to castings and even getting photographers to test

me was hard. Being told I looked like a monkey was tough. Tyron

saw my passion, and he saw that I wasn’t going to give up. He was

a very loyal and dedicated booker when I first came to the United

States. The day I gave up I realized I had to go home because I

[wasn’t] making much money. My mom picked me up at the

airport in Montego Bay, and when we got home, the phone was

ringing. Tyron said, “You have to come back to New York now!”

I wouldn’t even take the suitcase out of the car, because it was

the Calvin Klein CK One booking! That’s how it happened. It was

Steven Meisel shooting for Calvin Klein.

Do you remember your first paid booking?

Yes! My first paid booking was for a book by April Sinclair called

Coffee Will Make You Black.

It was only my mouth, and you

couldn’t even see my face. That was my first job in New York!

You worked a lot in Europe.

London was amazing for me. I was doing every show, and I got

to shoot editorials. In Paris, Peter Lindbergh would shoot me for

Vogue.

I worked with Ruven Afanador a lot. I got a lot of editorial

things in Europe, more than in the United States. In Europe, I

also did a lot of the top shows like Givenchy, Alexander McQueen,

Dior, and Christian Lacroix. Doing shows in London and Paris

was great because when you do them and return to New York,

you get more advertising work. It helps to build up your career.

The money was better in New York than in Europe, but the expe-

rience was better in Europe. More exciting and special in some

ways than in New York.

A Conversation with Lois

NAOMI

SIMS

Clients:

Bill Blass, Fernando Sánchez, Giorgio di Sant’ Angelo, Halston, Teal Traina

Magazines:

American

Vogue, Cosmopolitan, Ladies’ Home Journal, Life, Vogue

Italia

United States

|

1966–1973

It was while attending the Fashion Institute of Technology in 1966 that trailblazing model-turned-entrepreneur Naomi Sims first decided

to become a model. After she was repeatedly turned down by agencies in New York, often being told her skin was too dark, Naomi chose

to approach fashion photographers directly. That strategy paid off when Gösta Peterson, a photographer for the

New York Times,

shot

eighteen-year-old Naomi for the cover of the August 1967

New York Times

fashion supplement. With that groundbreaking editorial

in hand, Naomi approached agent Wilhelmina Cooper and became one of the first models of color to be represented by Wilhelmina

Models. During her first year with the agency, Naomi booked an AT&T commercial, reportedly earning as much as a thousand dollars a

week. In November 1968, she became the first black model to appear on the cover of

Ladies’ Home Journal.

Naomi followed that feat by

landing the cover of

Life

magazine in October 1969, making history again as the first African American model to do so.

Photographed by Yale Joel,

Life,

October 1969

187

“As a model, she had so

much grace, class, and

intelligence that you

could take all of us and

put us together, and we

wouldn’t equal Naomi

Sims. She literally

stopped traffic when she

walked down the street.”

—Beverly Johnson

Photographer unknown,

Ladies’ Home Journal,

November 1968

JOAN

SMALLS

Clients:

Balmain, Estée Lauder, Prada, Tom Ford, Victoria’s Secret

Magazines:

American

Vogue, Vogue

Italia,

Vogue

Japan,

Vogue

Mexico,

Vogue

Paris

Puerto Rico

|

2007–Present

Fashion did not discover Joan Smalls; she discovered it. From a young age, Joan wanted to become a model and pursued that goal by

entering local modeling competitions in Puerto Rico. After graduating magna cum laude from the Inter American University of Puerto

Rico with a bachelor’s degree in psychology, Joan moved to New York and signed with Elite Model Management in 2007. Though she

worked consistently for Elite, it was her move to IMG Models in 2009 that led to Joan’s biggest successes. Her breakthrough moment

came when Riccardo Tisci handpicked Joan for an exclusive at Givenchy’s Spring 2010 haute couture show. From there the sky has been

the limit for Joan. In 2011, she signed on as the global face of Estée Lauder, becoming the first model of Afro-Latin descent to receive a

cosmetics contract. In 2012, Joan was ranked number one on models.com’s “Top 50 Models” list, and in 2013, she ranked number eight

on

Forbes

magazine’s “World’s Highest-Paid Models” list behind fellow supermodels Gisele Bündchen, Adriana Lima, and Kate Moss.

Photographed by Greg Kadel,

Numéro

France, November 2016

191

“I always believe if

you want something

you should always

give one hundred

percent. I went into

[modeling] knowing

I wanted to be the

best, the best for Joan.

I wanted to know

what it felt like to be

successful.”

—Joan Smalls,

Evening Standard Magazine

Photographed by Kai Z Feng,

Vogue

Australia, May 2012

Clients:

Alexander Wang, Carolina Herrera, Narcisco Rodriguez, Oscar de la Renta, Victoria’s Secret

Magazines:

American

Vogue, i-D, Teen Vogue, Vogue

Italia,

Vogue

Paris

Dominican Republic

|

2008–Present

Photographed by Jennifer Livingston,

Harper’s Bazaar

US, May 2014

ARLENIS

SOSA

AYA

THORGREN

Clients:

Armani, Chanel, Revlon, Versace, Vivienne Westwood

Magazines:

Cosmopolitan, Elle

US,

Glamour, Sports Illustrated

Swimsuit Issue,

Vogue

Italia

Sweden

|

1986–1996

Though her career lasted just ten years, Aya Thorgren made a huge impact upon the European runways and in American fashion

magazines, most notably

Elle.

Aya, one of the original “Versace girls,” handpicked by Gianni, was one of the first women of color to appear

on the cover of

American Photo,

was featured in the 1994

Sports Illustrated

Swimsuit Issue, and was part of the legendary Revlon

“Most Unforgettable Women in the World” campaign, shot by Richard Avedon.

Photographed by David Woolley,

Cosmopolitan

UK, July 1991

197

MARCELLAS: What is your ethnic background?

AYA:

My mother is Afro-Cuban, and my father is Swedish. My

mother was a dancer at the Tropicana in Havana, Cuba. She also

modeled for some advertising for tourism.

As a child did you want to be a model?

Every girl wants to be considered pretty, so to be recognized as

a model internationally is the top of the cake. I always posed in

our family photographs! But actually, I did not feel that beautiful.

More like odd, especially growing up in Sweden, so even if I might

have wanted to, I did not see [modeling] as a possibility.

How did you get discovered? Do you remember your first

paid booking?

At sixteen I was discovered by an agent from Modellgruppen in

Stockholm, Sweden. My first job was a campaign for Scandina-

vian designer Helly Hansen, photographed by Carl Bengtsson.

Modellgruppen was my first agency in Europe, then Karin Mod-

els in Paris, Fashion in Italy, and then Ford in the US.

How did you start working in the States?

I worked in Paris and Milan first. I met Eileen Ford in Stock-

holm, and she wanted me to come to the US as soon as possible,

so when I was about nineteen, I felt ready. Once in New York, I

immediately started doing fashion shows and major advertising.

What was your best booking ever?

The Versace campaign was fun, creative, and I made good money!

I would consider it a perfect booking. When I got the Versace

campaign with Richard Avedon, then I knew that I had reached

the next level. I was popular and a selling force.

You worked so much during your career. Do you have any

favorite model memories?

I loved all the trips to the beaches, like when we went to Mexico

and the Bahamas with

Glamour

magazine and

Allure

with Polly

Mellen. The crew was wonderful, and we just laughed all day. The

Sports Illustrated

trip to Sardinia was great because the girls and

I had so much fun. And I will never forget Roshumba and me

laughing so hard backstage at the Louvre in our incredibly weird

outfits with horns made by this Japanese designer.

Who are your favorite models?

When I started modeling I worked side by side with Iman. I love

the way she looks in photographs. She shines and has a lot of style

and class. Roshumba [Williams is] also [a favorite], because she

is not only beautiful but also fun, and [she] took pride in her afro,

and that made her look awesome.

What is the most significant life lesson modeling taught you?

The biggest lesson I learned is that people will try to manipulate

and control a person who makes money. I had to learn to be care-

ful with people drawn to me because of my money. Modeling also

taught me inner strength, integrity, and to keep shining my love,

and that this was a power, not a weakness.

A Conversation with Aya

Photographed by Tiziano Magni,

Marie Claire

Germany, February 1991

DUCKIE

THOT

Clients:

Balmain, L’Oréal, Moschino, Oscar de la Renta, Victoria’s Secret

Magazines:

British

Vogue, CR Fashion Book, Paper, V Magazine, W Magazine

Australia

|

2016–Present

Photographed by Paola Kudacki,

Paper,

September 2017

JASMINE

TOOKES

Clients:

Calvin Klein, Dolce & Gabbana, Marc Jacobs, Tom Ford, Victoria’s Secret

Magazines:

American

Vogue, Sports Illustrated

Swimsuit Edition,

Vogue

España,

Vogue

Italia,

Vogue

Paris

United States

|

2010–Present

Photographed by Greg Kadel,

Vogue

España, March 2016

Clients:

Armani, Comme des Garçons, Revlon, Valentino, Versace

Magazines:

American

Vogue, Cosmopolitan, Elle

US,

Harper’s Bazaar

US,

L’Officiel

Paris

Aruba

|

1987–1997

When legendary agents Louise Despointes and Michael Flutie first spotted Ilonka Toppenberg in Amsterdam, a car chase ensued. “One

day, I was riding my bike when a taxi followed me and stopped me on the street,” recalls Ilonka. That chance meeting resulted in Ilonka

signing with modeling agencies City in Paris and Name in New York. From her very first booking with famed photographer Oliviero Toscani

to being chosen as one of

Elle

France’s and

Elle

UK’s “Top 10 Models,” Ilonka quickly rose to become one of the most in-demand models

of the early nineties.

During her decade as a top model, Ilonka became a runway superstar, making multiple appearances for Azzedine Alaïa, Fendi, Gianfranco

Ferré, Jean Paul Gaultier, Marc Jacobs, Christian Lacroix, Thierry Mugler, and Valentino. However, there is one show in particular that

stands out in her memory: “My first haute couture show was on the Spanish Steps in Rome. I was very nervous to go down these beautiful

but oh-so-uneven and slippery steps. Fortunately, Pat Cleveland was there to give me advice and tips!”

Photographed by Serge Barbeau,

L’Officiel

Paris, December 1991

ILONKA

TOPPENBERG

205

MARCELLAS: Ilonka, what is your ethnic background, and

where were you born?

ILONKA:

I was born in Aruba, a Dutch island in the Caribbean.

My ethnic background is mixed. From my father’s side, a mix-

ture of African and an indigenous people of South America, the

Arawaks, and from my mother’s side, European.

How does a girl from Aruba become one of the top models

in the world?

I was discovered in Amsterdam, where I studied at the university.

Louise Despointes and Michael Flutie signed me with my first

modeling agency in Paris, which was called City, and then Name

in New York. After five months I moved to New York where I

lived for three years.

Amazing! Louise and Michael are legends. Do you remember

your first booking?

My first job was a publicity shoot for a blow-dryer! It shot in Paris

with photographer Oliviero Toscani.

At what moment did you know you were a successful model?

Definitely when I was chosen as one of the “Elle Stars,” one of the

ten most beautiful girls, by

Elle

France and

Elle

UK.

You worked for every top designer in the world. Who was

your favorite?

I have three. My favorite designers were Karl Lagerfeld at

Chanel, Christian Dior, and of course Giorgio Armani.

We live in the time of the #blacklivesmatter and #metoo

movements. Being a woman of color, did you experience rac-

ism during your career?

Being a mixed model, I sometimes experienced that clients

thought I was either too white or too black for a job.

What is the most significant life lesson modeling taught you?

I was rather timid, and modeling forced me to step out of my

comfort zone. Modeling also taught me how to be with myself,

because loneliness was a part of the job. But I think the most

important lesson I have learned is patience and the ability to

adapt to situations that occur unexpectedly.

A Conversation with Ilonka

Toppenberg with Louise Vyent and Karen Alexander, photographed by Gilles Bensimon,

Elle

US, alternate shot, February 1990

LOUISE

VYENT

Clients:

Azzedine Alaïa, Calvin Klein, Maybelline, Revlon, Victoria’s Secret

Magazines:

American

Vogue,

British

Vogue, Harper’s Bazaar

US,

Sports Illustrated

Swimsuit Issue,

Vogue

Italia

The Netherlands

|

1980s–Present

By the 1990s, you could not miss Louise Vyent’s beautiful visage. She was everywhere: on the runways of Azzedine Alaïa and Calvin Klein

and on the covers of American

Vogue, Glamour,

and

Harper’s Bazaar

magazines. She also starred alongside fellow supermodels Beverly

Johnson and Iman in the famous Revlon “Most Unforgettable Women in the World” ad. Louise never intended to become a model.

“I got ‘discovered‘ by my Dutch agent, Corine Spier-Rottschäfer, the owner of Corine Models in Amsterdam,” recalls Louise. “I came in

fifth place in a

Viva

magazine modeling contest. It was in the early eighties, and

Viva

was the most popular magazine for girls and young

women. Together with a couple of friends, we decided to send in pictures just for the hell of it. None of us had any real aspirations of

becoming a model; we barely knew what modeling entailed, but we had nothing to lose. So why not?”

Even though she didn’t dream of being a model, when the opportunity presented itself, Louise took it. “In a way, modeling came to me.

I started out with zero expectations. The assignments kept coming, and I kept showing up. I realized I was getting many but not all the jobs

I wanted. I was very fortunate.” Having graduated summa cum laude at age fifty-one, Louise is now a successful life coach and sees

modeling and life as a path toward self-discovery. “It is important for young models to have some sense of who they are when they enter

the business, because it is very easy to get lost,” says Louise. “Then again, life is supposed to be a journey and not a destination. In the

end, it is not about what we do, but about who we are being.”

Photographed by Richard Avedon, American

Vogue,

February 1987

VERONICA

WEBB

Clients:

Azzedine Alaïa, Chanel, Isaac Mizrahi, Revlon, Todd Oldham

Magazines:

American

Vogue,

British

Vogue

,

Elle

Italia,

Elle

US,

Vogue

Italia

United States

|

1985–Present

Activist, actress, and writer, supermodel Veronica Webb’s career is proof that models are limited only by labels placed upon themselves.

Her discovery, selling housewares in New York while attending Parsons School of Design, was just the beginning of one of fashion’s most

prolific careers. For nearly three decades Veronica has reigned supreme among models. Her gorgeous face, signature eyebrows, and that

radiant smile graced her first cover for

Elle

France in October 1986. Covers of both American

Vogue

and

Vogue

Italia, as well as

Elle

UK,

Elle

US, and

Marie Claire

France soon followed. Muse and friend to three of fashion’s most talented designers—Azzedine Alaïa, Karl

Lagerfeld, and Gianni Versace—Veronica became one of the most sought-after runway models of the late eighties and nineties. But it’s

a history-making first for which Veronica may be best known. In 1992 Veronica Webb became the first black model to sign an exclusive

contract with a cosmetics company, Revlon. For most models, a cosmetics contract, the gold standard in fashion, would be enough. But

Veronica saw the contract as much more. “One thing that really attracted me to the project is there are also some very substantive things

we want to do for black communities around the country. What I would like to do is some work at Revlon for the community that would

leave behind something that would affect young people for a generation,” Veronica told the

Baltimore Sun

at the time.

Photographed by Gilles Bensimon,

Elle

US, November 1990

210

1985

Appears in a March British

Vogue

editorial

Appears in three July/

August

Vogue

Italia editorials

1986

Featured on the February

cover of

Elle

France, her first

1988

Featured on the August

cover of

Elle

France with

models Monica Bellucci and

Claudia Schiffer

1989

Featured on the May cover

of

Vogue

Italia

1990

Featured on the November

cover of

Elle

US

1991

Makes her film debut in

Jungle Fever,

directed by

Spike Lee

1992

Signs a multiyear cosmetics

contract with Revlon, becom-

ing the first black model to

do so

1994

Featured on the January

cover of

i-D

magazine

Veronica Webb:

A Legendary Timeline

•

------------------------

•

--------------

•

---------------------

•

--------------

•

--------------

•

-----------------

•

---------------------

•

---------------------------------------------

Photographed by Albert Watson,

Vogue

Italia, May 1989

211

1995

Joins the board of Lifebeat,

a music and entertainment

industry organization provid-

ing resources and support in

the fight against AIDS

Walks in the first-ever Victo-

ria’s Secret fashion show

1998

Publishes

Veronica Webb

Sight: Adventures in the Big

City

2000

Featured on the December

cover of

Essence

magazine

2005

Walks the runway for Fashion

for Relief, a charity estab-

lished by Naomi Campbell

to raise funds for victims of

Hurricane Katrina

2008

Appears in the

Vogue

Italia

“All Black” issue

2010

Appears in editorials for May

Elle

Italia and June/July

Vogue

Paris

2015

Appears in the Barneys New

York Spring/Summer 2015

advertising campaign with

Pat Cleveland, Bethann

Hardison, and Kiara Kabukuru

2016

Appears in the Fall/Winter

2016 Yeezy fashion presen-

tation with Naomi Campbell,

Liya Kebede, and Alek Wek

--------------

•

------------------------------------

•

-----------------

•

--------------

•

-------------------------

•

--------------

•

-----------------

•

-------------------------

•

----------------

Photographed by Pamela Hanson,

Vogue

Italia, January 1993

ALEK

WEK

Clients:

Balenciaga, Calvin Klein, Christian Lacroix, Marc Jacobs, Sonia Rykiel

Magazines:

American

Vogue, Elle

US,

Essence, V Magazine, Vogue

Italia

Sudan

|

1995–Present

Few models have made as dramatic an impact upon fashion as Sudanese stunner Alek Wek. Discovered in 1995 at an outdoor market, Alek

ascended to fashion stardom in a manner that was nothing short of miraculous. She was quickly snapped up by Ford Models in New York,

and Ralph Lauren chose Alek to open his Spring/Summer 1997 runway show. From there she was off to Paris, with appearances on the

runways of Chanel, Jean Paul Gaultier, Alexander McQueen, and Vivienne Westwood. But it was the November 1997 cover of

Elle

US, her

first magazine cover, and the first time an African model appeared on the cover of

Elle

, that sent Alek into the fashion stratosphere.

Photographed by Marc Baptiste,

Essence,

September 2000

215

“When I was growing up, If [Wek had] been

on the cover of a magazine, I would have had

a whole different concept of who I was.”

—Oprah Winfrey,

The Oprah Winfrey Show

Above and opposite:

Photographed by Gilles Bensimon,

Elle

US, November 1997

JESSICA

WHITE

Clients:

Chloé, CoverGirl, Maybelline, Oscar de la Renta, Ralph Lauren

Magazines:

American

Vogue, Harper’s Bazaar

US

, Paper, Sports Illustrated

Swimsuit Issue,

W Magazine

United States

|

2000–Present

In 2000, Buffalo, New York, native Jessica White signed with IMG Models. Later that year, she scored her first cosmetics contract,

with CoverGirl. She was just sixteen years old. That feat, because of her age, was historic in its own right, but seven years later Jessica

made history again by becoming the first African American woman to sign a second cosmetics contract, this time with Maybelline. That’s

contracts, not ads. But it wasn’t just collecting beauty contracts where Jessica dominated. She has appeared in the

Sports Illustrated

Swimsuit Issue a record eight times. A veteran of both the Victoria’s Secret catalog and fashion show, Jessica also walked the runway for

designers Bill Blass, Alberta Ferretti, and Tracy Reese and appeared in ads for Chloé and Ralph Lauren.

Photographed by Sasha Eisenman,

Vibe,

February 2008

JENEIL

WILLIAMS

Clients:

Burberry Prorsum, L’Oréal, Louis Vuitton, Viktor & Rolf, Vivienne Westwood

Magazines:

American

Vogue, Teen Vogue, Vogue

Germany,

Vogue

Italia,

Vogue

Turkey

Jamaica

|

2009–Present

“As a child, I always wanted to model! I used to get dressed up and pretend I was on the runway,” recalls Jamaica-born stunner Jeneil

Williams. In high school, Jeneil excelled in track and field and set her sights on another goal: the Olympics. “I started modeling when I got

injured one track season. After that season off, I decided to go after my modeling career by entering a model search in Jamaica. I came

in second and signed to an agency called Pulse.” However, it was signing with her longtime agent Steven Bermudez at IMG Models that

helped her career catch fire. Jeneil has worked with fashion’s top photographers, from a Benetton campaign shot by the legendary David

Sims, to numerous campaigns and editorials for Steven Meisel, Mert & Marcus, Mario Testino, and Ellen von Unwerth. After turns on the

runway for Balenciaga, Kenzo, Diane von Furstenberg, and Louis Vuitton, Jeneil hung up her track shoes and started collecting covers for

French Revue de Modes, i-D

,

Love,

and

Vogue

Turkey instead of gold medals. Track and field’s loss was fashion’s gain.

Photographed by Txema Yeste,

Numéro

France, February 2014

ROSHUMBA

WILLIAMS

Clients:

CoverGirl, Dior, Gianfranco Ferré, Maybelline, Michael Kors

Magazines:

American

Vogue, Elle

US,

Essence, Harper’s Bazaar

US,

Sports Illustrated

Swimsuit Issue

United States

|

1987–Present

Photographed by Nathaniel Kramer,

Elle

US, April 1990

223

F

or Roshumba Williams, a trip to the grocery store with

her mother changed her life. “I was fourteen, maybe fifteen, when

I walked into a Kroger in Peoria, Illinois, and saw

Elle

magazine.

It had black models inside and on the cover. That was it! It was

the only thing I ever wanted to be,” Roshumba says. In 1987 Ro-

shumba left Chicago and traveled to Paris in pursuit of a model-

ing career. “I had $150 and a dream. I was going to model if it

killed me. I won my luggage from the Kroger grocery store. It was

blue with gold piping! I didn’t know about food, so I packed pea-

nut butter, crackers, sardines, and Kool-Aid. I bought a round-

trip plane ticket, and all I had left over was that $150.”

Roshumba arrived in Paris on June 23 on a mission. “I had only

two weeks to meet with agencies. I went to several, and the one

that took me on was called Cosa Nostra. It was right before haute

couture season, and they wanted to send me out for the shows.

I had several castings my first day, and my last was for Yves Saint

Laurent at Saint Avenue de Marseille. You walk up, press the but-

ton, and the doors open automatically to this marble staircase,

this gilded handrail, and this elegant French lady sitting at her

marble desk with a cigarette. Loulou de la Falaise said, ‘May I

help you?’ in English. I went in, and Yves Saint Laurent looked at

me. It was amazing. It was just epic.”

Though Roshumba started her career as a fit model for Saint

Laurent and Chanel, it was a prêt-à-porter runway show that was

her breakthrough. “Because I did such a good job as a fit model,

Monsieur Saint Laurent put me in his prêt-à-porter show. That’s

when it happened! My hair, the shortly cropped afro, stood out. I

was dark-skinned, yet American, and I was new,” Roshumba says.

“I was something fresh. All the editors saw me on the runway:

Elle, Marie Claire, Vogue.

They were like, ‘Who’s the girl? Who is

this Roshumba?’ They all started booking me.”

Roshumba’s first print booking was for

Elle

France with photog-

rapher Oliviero Toscani. “He would shoot all of the

Elle

maga-

zines worldwide,” she says. “Anything he shot he would put me

in. That’s why until this day, my top main photographer, whom

I love with all my heart, is Oliviero Toscani. I got

Sports Illustrated

because of

Elle

.”

If it was

Elle

and Yves Saint Laurent that made Roshumba a star

in fashion circles, it was

Sports Illustrated

that made her a top

model. “I was with Bethann Management when

Sports Illus-

trated

called,” recalls Roshumba. “Me, a black girl with an afro, in

Sports Illustrated!

Everyone was shocked. The fashion industry

knew who I was, but when I shot

Sports Illustrated,

that’s when

the world learned who I was. They put four pictures of me in

Sports Illustrated

my first time. Oh my God! I went from a known

fashion girl to being recognized worldwide.”

Photographed by Gilles Bensimon,

Elle

US, September 1989

TAMI

WILLIAMS

Clients:

Gucci, Jason Wu, Jil Sander, Max Mara, Rochas

Magazines:

American

Vogue, Elle

France,

i-D, Vogue

Italia,

W

Magazine

Jamaica

|

2014–Present

Photographed by Emma Summerton,

W Magazine

, August 2015

ANOK

YAI

Clients:

Estée Lauder, Louis Vuitton, Max Mara, Prada, Saint Laurent

Magazines:

American

Vogue,

British

Vogue, V Magazine, Vogue

Italia,

W Magazine

Sudan

|

2018–Present

How’s this for a dream discovery story? Anok Yai, a sophomore at Plymouth State University in New Hampshire, is at Yardfest, Howard

University’s homecoming concert in Washington, DC, hanging out with friends. Randomly, a photographer, Steven Hall, asks to take her

picture, which he posts on his Instagram account, @TheSUNK. The photo goes viral, with several of the world’s top modeling agencies

vying to represent her. She signs with Next Management and four months later becomes the first black model since Naomi Campbell, her

idol, to open a Prada fashion show. That was the whirlwind start of Anok’s career. Since her exclusive at Prada, Anok has gone on to walk

the runways of Chloé, Dries Van Noten, Loewe, Yves Saint Laurent, and Versace. In 2018, she scored every model’s dream job, becoming

a global spokesmodel for Estée Lauder, joining the ranks of top models Liya Kebede, Karlie Kloss, and Joan Smalls.

Photographed by Brianna Capozzi,

Dazed,

Spring/Summer 2018

KARA

YOUNG

Clients:

CoverGirl, Escada, L’Oréal, Maybelline, Revlon

Magazines:

American

Vogue,

British

Vogue, Elle

France,

Vogue

Italia,

Vogue

Paris

United States

|

1986–Present

For twenty years, three-time American

Vogue

cover girl Kara Young reigned as one of the top models in the world. In 1986 a teenaged

Kara competed in the Elite Look of the Year contest, which led to signing with Elite Model Management in San Francisco. Faith Kates,

who eventually founded Next Management, brought Kara to New York, where she quickly became a favorite of designers Azzedine

Alaïa, Donna Karan, Michael Kors, and Gianni Versace. Kara appeared in the now-legendary Revlon “Most Unforgettable Women in the

World” campaign, shot by the great Richard Avedon, alongside her friend Christy Turlington. She scored covers and editorials with every

major fashion magazine, which she credits to top fashion stylist Carlyne Cerf de Dudzeele. “Carlyne made my career skyrocket. She

pushed for me and believed in me. Carlyne had me work with Peter Lindbergh, Patrick Demarchelier, and Steven Meisel. She is still so

major and relevant,” says Kara.

Photographed by Richard Avedon, American

Vogue,

April 1988

231

MARCELLAS: How did you get discovered?

KARA:

I competed in the Elite Look of the Year contest, and

though I didn’t win, I met agents from all over the world. Gary

Loftus of Elite Model Management on Castro Street in San Fran-

cisco told me,

“Please

grow out your pencil-thin eyebrows and fix

your hillbilly chipped tooth!” Gary said I would be a movie star.

What was it like in your early days as a model?

My first gig was a print job for a department store. I wore maroon

Calvin Klein underwear. In San Francisco, Christy Turling-

ton and I would go to our jobs on the BART train, painting our

nails on the way. All the businessmen would complain! I went to

Japan, where I worked two bookings a day, and then moved to

LA when I returned to the States. Later I traveled to New York,

then Paris, then Milan, and then back to New York, and here I still

am! Mainly I was a print model, though I wish I did more runway

shows! I walked for Azzedine Alaïa and Marc Jacobs, but I had

stage fright. I was good at commercials and print campaigns. My

timing was pretty decent. I looked exotic but still very American.

What was your best booking ever?

Well, nothing beats an American

Vogue

cover. Except when your

second

Vogue

cover is Anna Wintour’s first and Richard Avedon’s

last! Appearing inside

Vogue

in a ten-page spread, photographed

by Steven Meisel, didn’t hurt either. My most stunning job was

the

Vogue

cover. The most epic and fun job I had in my life was a

Levi’s commercial, shot in Hawaii with Herb Ritts.

What was your least favorite experience?

Of course, I had demoralizing experiences, like being sent home

for not being suitable, or not used at all, and being paid less. The

worst? Being jailed in Thailand due to not speaking the language

and cultural misunderstandings. Through it all, I learned what

positions I did not want to end up in. I made huge mistakes as

well. I dated people who did not have my best interests at heart,

but you live and learn.

You worked side by side with some of fashion’s most incred-

ible models and photographers. It sounds like you had the

best time.

I loved doing Revlon. I loved shooting

Elle

with Gilles Bensimon.

I loved working in the studio with Steven Meisel and Patrick

Demarchelier, and shooting in Hawaii with Herb Ritts! I did so

many great jobs and met and lost so many great friends, like How-

ard Fugler and Kevyn Aucoin, along the way. I met some great

people, passionate and crazy people! The people. The travel. The

bucks! It was all worth it. It changed myself and my whole family

for the better.

A Conversation with Kara

Photographed by Richard Avedon, American

Vogue,

October 1988

234

Credits

Photography Credits

Page 2

: Emma Summerton / Trunk Archive.

Pages 4 –5

: Emma Summerton / Trunk Archive.

Page 11

: Pamela Hanson / Trunk Archive.

Page 16

: Loebel / Courtesy of EBONY Medial Operations, LLC.

Page 17

: Moneta Sleet Jr. / Courtesy of EBONY Medial Operations,

LLC.

Page 21

: Nico Bustos / Artlist.

Page 25

: Hugh Bell / Courtesy of

ESSENCE

.

Page 29

: Buckmaster / Courtesy of

ESSENCE

.

Page 30

: © Patrick Demarchelier.

Page 33

: Sebastian Kim / August Image.

Page 35

: Johnny Dufort / August Image.

Page 37

: Herb Ritts / Trunk Archive.

Page 38

: Ke Ogata / Courtesy of

ESSENCE

.

Page 41

: © Paul Scala.

Page 42

: © Jenny Brough.

Page 45

: David Roemer / Trunk Archive.

Page 47

: Laurie Bartley / Brydges Mackinney.

Page 49

: Guy Aroch / Courtesy of

ESSENCE

.

Page 51

: Russell James /

Sports Illustrated

/ Contour by Getty Images.

Page 52

: Gilles Bensimon / Trunk Archive.

Page 53

: Alexi Lubomirski / Trunk Archive.

Page 55

: Photograph by Richard Avedon © The Richard Avedon

Foundation.

Page 57

: Kuba Ryniewicz for

Vogue

Polska.

Page 59

: Greg Kadel / Trunk Archive.

Page 61

: Gilles Bensimon / Trunk Archive.

Page 62

: Photograph by Richard Avedon © The Richard Avedon

Foundation.

Page 65

: Greg Kadel / Trunk Archive.

Page 67

: Sebastian Kim / August Image.

Page 68

: © Patrick Demarchelier.

Page 70

: Herb Ritts / Trunk Archive.

Page 71

: © Steven Meisel.

Page 72

: Max Vadukul / August Image.

Page 75

: Ron Galella / Getty Images.

Page 76

: Olivia Malone / Trunk Archive.

Pages 79 –81

: © John-Paul Pietrus.

Page 83

: Justin Ridler / Trudy Biernat.

Page 85

: Albert Watson / Courtesy of Condé Nast.

Page 87

: Julia Noni / Trunk Archive.

Page 88

: © Patrick Demarchelier.

Page 91

: Inez and Vinoodh / Trunk Archive.

Pages 92 –93

: Emma Summerton / Trunk Archive.

Page 95

: Matt Irwin / Trunk Archive.

Page 97

: Txema Yeste / Trunk Archive.

Page 99

: Emma Summerton / Trunk Archive.

Page 101

: © Chris Nicholls.

Page 103

: Giampaolo Sgura / Trunk Archive.

Page 104

: © Patrick Demarchelier.

Page 107

: Amy Troost / Trunk Archive.

Pages 109 –110

: Hans Feurer / Trunk Archive.

Page 113

: Emma Summerton / Trunk Archive.

Page 115

: Photograph by Francesco Scavullo © The Francesco Scavullo

Foundation and © The Francesco Scavullo Trust.

Pages 118 –119

: Rico Puhlmann /

Glamour

© Condé Nast.

Page 121

: Nico Bustos / Artlist / Courtesy of

Vogue

España.

Page 123

: Hans Feurer / Trunk Archive.

Pages 124 –125

: Rankin / Trunk Archive.

Page 127

: Max Cardelli / Trunk Archive.

Page 129

: Andreas Sjödin / Trunk Archive.

Page 130

: Alexi Lubomirski / Trunk Archive.

Page 131

: Inez and Vinoodh / Trunk Archive / Courtesy of

Vogue

Paris.

Page 133

: © Paul Thatcher.

Page 135

: © Laurent Elie Badessi.

Page 137

: Txema Yeste / Trunk Archive.

Page 139

: David Bailey /

Vogue

© The Condé Nast Publications Ltd.

Page 141

: Victor Demarchelier / August Image.

Page 143

: Sebastian Kim / August Image.

Page 145

: Horst Diekgerdes / Trunk Archive.

Page 147

: Daniel Riera / Trunk Archive.

Page 149

: Gilles Bensimon / Trunk Archive.

Page 151

: Anthony Gordon /

Vogue

Australia © Condé Nast.

Page 152

: Gilles Bensimon / Trunk Archive.

Page 155

: Josh Orlins / Trunk Archive.

Page 157

: Photograph by Francesco Scavullo © The Francesco Scavullo

Foundation and © The Francesco Scavullo Trust.

Page 159

: Gilles Bensimon / Trunk Archive.

Page 161

: Kope Figgins / Hearst Archive.

Page 163

: Ben Watts / Trunk Archive.

Page 164

: Jonty Davies / August Image.

235

Page 167

: Gilles Bensimon / Trunk Archive.

Page 168

: Beverly Peele, March 2, 1992 © Tiziano Magni.

Page 171

: Gilles Bensimon / Trunk Archive.

Page 173

: Jack Ward /

Glamour

© Condé Nast.

Page 174

: George Barkentin /

Mademoiselle

© Condé Nast.

Page 175

: Jack Ward /

Glamour

© Condé Nast.

Page 177

: Greg Kadel / Trunk Archive.

Page 179

: Gilles Bensimon / Trunk Archive.

Page 181

: © James Hicks.

Page 182

: Walter Chin / Trunk Archive.

Page 185

: Yale Joel / The

LIFE

Premium Collection / Getty Images.

Page 186

: Originally published in

Ladies’ Home Journal

®. All Rights

Reserved.

Page 189

: Greg Kadel / Trunk Archive.

Page 190

: Kai Z Feng / Trunk Archive.

Page 193

: Jennifer Livingston / Trunk Archive.

Page 195

: David Woolley / Angeli & Co.

Page 196

: © Tiziano Magni.

Page 199

: Paola Kudacki / Trunk Archive.

Page 201

: Greg Kadel / Trunk Archive.

Page 203

: Serge Barbeau / Courtesy of the Michele Filomeno Agency.

Page 204

: Gilles Bensimon / Trunk Archive.

Page 207

: Photograph by Richard Avedon © The Richard Avedon

Foundation.

Page 209

: Gilles Bensimon / Trunk Archive.

Page 210

: Albert Watson / Courtesy of

Vogue

Italia.

Page 211

: Pamela Hanson / Trunk Archive / Courtesy of

Vogue

Italia.

Page 213

: Marc Baptiste / Courtesy of

ESSENCE

.

Pages 214 –215

: Gilles Bensimon / Trunk Archive.

Page 217

: Sasha Eisenman / Trunk Archive.

Page 219

: Txema Yeste / Trunk Archive.

Page 221

: © Nathaniel Kramer.

Page 222

: Gilles Bensimon / Trunk Archive.

Page 225

: Emma Summerton / Trunk Archive.

Page 227 : Brianna Capozzi / Rep Limited.

Pages 229 –230

: Photographs by Richard Avedon © The Richard Avedon

Foundation.

Page 237

: Gilles Bensimon / Trunk Archive.

Pages 238 –239

: Emma Summerton / Trunk Archive.

Text Credits

Page 31

: Marjon Carlos, “‘I Want to

Create

the Trend’: 7 Life Lessons

From Model and Mogul Iman,”

Vogue

, September 9, 2015, https://www

.vogue.com/article/fashion-beauty-iman-supermodel-models-diversity

-yves-saint-laurent.

Page 69

: Naomi Campbell, “Naomi Campbell interviewed by Nick Knight

about racism in the fashion industry,” interview by Nick Knight, SHOW

studio, July 1, 2015, https://youtu.be/iUIpuYMScS4.

Page 77

: Pat Cleveland,

Walking with the Muses: A Memoir

(New York: 37

Ink, 2016), 152, 168.

Page 105

: Elizabeth Siegel and Lindsy van Gelder, “41 Women of Color

Get REAL About Beauty and Diversity,”

Allure

, March 21, 2017, https://

www.allure.com/story/women-of-color-on-beauty-diversity-april

-2017-cover.

Page 125

: Grace Jones,

I’ll Never Write My Memoirs

(New York: Gallery

Books, 2016), 380.

Page 169

: “Beverly Peele,”

People

, May 3, 1993, https://people.com

/archive/beverly-peele-vol-39-no-17.

Page 187

: Beverly Johnson, interview with author, November 28, 2018.

Page 191

: Tilly Macalister-Smith, “Joan Smalls on race, rejection and

refusing to take no for an answer,”

Evening Standard

, February 16, 2017,

https://www.standard.co.uk/lifestyle/esmagazine/joan-smalls-on-race

-rejection-and-refusing-to-take-no-for-an-answer-a3466591.html.

Page 215

: Oprah Winfrey,

The Oprah Winfrey Show

, quoted in Alek

Wek,

Alek: My Life from Sudanese Refugee to International Supermodel

(New York: Amistad, 2008), 164.

upreme Models

celebrates the talents of the

designers, editors, fashion stylists, hair and makeup artists, mod-

els, and photographers who create the magic that inspires the

world to dream.

Supreme Models

is a thank-you to all the women

featured inside, and so many others, whose beauty, determina-

tion, and talent helped change how people of color are seen the

world over. It’s a thank-you to trailblazers Bethann Hardison and

Iman, and to my favorite models, Naomi Campbell and my dear

friend Veronica Webb. Veronica, thank you for your beautiful

essay and being such a vital part of this book and fashion. Thank

you to the angel Christy Turlington for your wonderful essay.

Supreme Models

would not have been possible without the help of

the following people. Thank you to my confidant and friend Tom

Nickel for introducing me to my literary agent, Allison Devereux.

Allison, thank you for making my dream a reality and making me

“a writer with a book deal.” You believed when I didn’t and led

when I was scared. Thank you to my team at Abrams for all your

hard work creating

Supreme Models

. Thank you so much to my

editor, Rebecca Kaplan, for picking me. From our first conversa-

tion, I knew you understood what this book could be. Thank you,

Sarah Massey, for guiding this project from myriad beautiful pho-

tos and my dreams to a real book to be held, read, and hopefully

loved. And because it’s not just photos that make a book beauti-

ful, thank you, Claudia Wu and Anet Sirna-Bruder. Nicole Hyatt

and Rebecca Karamehmedovic, my incredible photo editors at

Sway NY, thank you for your talent, belief, and incredible passion

in the pursuit of these beautiful images. And lastly, thank you to

Escarlen Baque and the team at Trunk Archives for your help in

procuring so many of the beautiful images found here.

I wrote

Supreme Models

to give these extraordinary women the

chance to tell their stories. Adaora Akubilo, Karen Alexander,

Leomie Anderson, Georgie Badiel, Kersti Bowser, Ysaunny Brito,

Lisa Butler, Rose Cordero, Adia Coulibaly, Peggy Dillard, Dilone,

Quiana Grant, Theresa Hayes, Tomiko Fraser Hines, Beverly

Johnson, Shakara Ledard, Damaris Lewis, Sessilee Lopez, Coco

Mitchell, Mayowa Nicholas, Lana Ogilvie, Mounia Orosemane,

Emanuela de Paula, Daphne Maxwell Reid, Stephanie Roberts,

Lois Samuels, Aya Thorgren, Ilonka Toppenberg, Louise Vyent,

Jeneil Williams, Karen Williams, Roshumba Williams, and Kara

Young—thank you for your bravery, candor, and humor. And

thank you for allowing me to tell just a part of your incredible

journeys.

My friends are my family, and I have many of each to thank. Thank

you, Mom, for your love and constant support. Thank you to Papa

Joe; my sisters, Donna and Lorraine; and the Jamison/Parker/

Schmittgen clan, the family I chose who chose me back. Thank

you to my friend and mentor Marie Anderson. I am forever grate-

ful to you. I wrote

Supreme Models

as a celebration of all those I

met along the way working as a model and now as a fashion styl-

ist. Thank you, Gayle Brown, Liza Cruzat Brooks, Alexis Gaube,

Chene and Glynnis Lawson (the great-nieces of model Dorothea

Towles), Shakara Ledard, Timica Sargent, Jahaila Sing, Eleanor

Simon, and my model girlfriends whom I spent so much time

with at castings and on sets. Thank you to the King family—Mama

King, Megan, and Stephanie. Thank you to “my Kata.” Your help

in the creation of this book was invaluable. We’re always there

for each other, from Aria Models and beyond. Lastly, thank you

to my people: Chrisondra Boyd, Andrew Christian, Adam and

Valerie Cuculich, Liz Dozier, and Porsche Thomas. You are each

amazing.

S

Acknowledgments

Naomi Campbell and Beverly Peele, photographed by Gilles Bensimon,

Elle

US, November 1992

Editor: Sarah Massey

Designer: Claudia Wu

Production Manager: Alison Gervais

Library of Congress Control Number: 2018958320

ISBN: 978-1-4197-3614-8

eISBN: 978-1-68335-662-2

Text copyright © 2019 Marcellas Reynolds

Cover © 2019 Abrams

Page 2 : Jasmine Tookes, Anais Mali, and Jourdan Dunn, photographed by Emma Summerton,

W Magazine

, March 2012

Pages 4 –5: Jourdan Dunn, Sessilee Lopez, Lais Ribeiro, Melodie Monrose, Arlenis Sosa Peña,

Chanel Iman, Aminata Niaria, Rose Cordero, and Ajak Deng, photographed by Emma Summerton,

Vogue

Italia, February 2011

Pages 238 –239: Ajak Deng, Aya Jones, Amilna Estevão, Anais Mali, Binx Walton, and Tami

Williams, photographed by Emma Summerton,

W Magazine

, August 2015

Published in 2019 by Abrams, an imprint of ABRAMS. All rights reserved. No portion of this

book may be reproduced, stored in a retrieval system, or transmitted in any form or by any means,

mechanical, electronic, photocopying, recording, or otherwise, without written permission from

the publisher.

Abrams books are available at special discounts when purchased in quantity for premiums

and promotions as well as fundraising or educational use. Special editions can also be created

to specification. For details, contact specialsales@abramsbooks.com or the address below.

Abrams® is a registered trademark of Harry N. Abrams, Inc.

ABRAMS The Art of Books 195 Broadway, New York, NY 10007 abramsbooks.com

Table of Contents

Cover

Title Page

Contens

Foreword

Introduction

The Trailblazers: Ophelia DeVore Dorothea Towles Helen Williams

The Godmother: Bethann Hardison

The Supremes:

Iman Abdulmajid

Adwoa Aboah

Adut Akech

Karen Alexander

Leomie Anderson

Georgie Badiel

Cynthia Bailey

Tyra Banks

Shari Belafonte

Grace Bol

Maria Borges

Kersti Bowser

Ysaunny Brito

Naomi Campbell

Pat Cleveland

Rose Cordero

Ajak Deng

Peggy Dillard

Janiece Altagracia Dilone

Jourdan Dunn

Cora Emmanuel

Amilna Estevão

Malaika Firth

Quiana Grant

Imaan Hammam

Theresa Hayes

Tomiko Fraser Hines

Chanel Iman

Beverly Johnson

Aya Jones

Grace Jones

Kiara Kabukuru

Liya Kebede

Precious Lee

Sessilee Lopez

Karly Loyce

Donyale Luna

Anais Mali

Riley Montana

Kai Newman

Mayowa Nicholas

Gail O’Neill

Lana Ogilvie

Oluchi Onweagba

Mounia Orosemane

Lorraine Pascale

Nykhor Paul

Emanuela de Paula

Beverly Peele

Brandi Quinones

Daphne Maxwell Reid

Lais Ribeiro

Stephanie Roberts

Lois Samuels

Naomi Sims

Joan Smalls

Arlenis Sosa

Aya Thorgren

Duckie Thot

Jasmine Tookes

Ilonka Toppenberg

Louise Vyent

Veronica Webb

Alek Wek

Jessica White

Jeneil Williams

Roshumba Williams

Tami Williams

Anok Yai

Kara Young

Credits

Acknowledgments

Copyright Page

Back Cover

Guide

Cover

Supreme Models: Iconic Black Women Who Revolutionized Fashion

Bodymatter

Copyright Page

Cover

Endpaper 1

1

2

3

4

5

6

7

8

9

10

11

12

13

14

15

16

17

18

19

20

21

22

23

24

25

26

27

28

29

30

31

32

33

34

35

36

37

38

39

40

41

42

43

44

45

46

47

48

49

50

51

52

53

54

55

56

57

58

59

60

61

62

63

64

65

66

67

68

69

70

71

72

73

74

75

76

77

78

79

80

81

82

83

84

85

86

87

88

89

90

91

92

93

94

95

96

97

98

99

100

101

102

103

104

105

106

107

108

109

110

111

112

113

114

115

116

117

118

119

120

121

122

123

124

125

126

127

128

129

130

131

132

133

134

135

136

137

138

139

140

141

142

143

144

145

146

147

148

149

150

151

152

153

154

155

156

157

158

159

160

161

162

163

164

165

166

167

168

169

170

171

172

173

174

175

176

177

178

179

180

181

182

183

184

185

186

187

188

189

190

191

192

193

194

195

196

197

198

199

200

201

202

203

204

205

206

207

208

209

210

211

212

213

214

215

216

217

218

219

220

221

222

223

224

225

226

227

228

229

230

231

232

233

234

235

236

237

238

239

240

Endpaper 2

Back Cover
